.TH ttce2xdr 1M "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.IX "ttce2xdr" "" ""ttce2xdr.1m" ""
.SH NAME
ttce2xdr \- convert ToolTalk Classing Engine type tables to XDR format 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ttce2xdr
.RB [ -xn ]
.B -d
.I user
|
.I system
.br
.B ttce2xdr
.RB [ -xn ]
.B -d
.I network
.RI [ OPENWINHOME-from
.RI [ OPENWINHOME-to ]]
.br
.B ttce2xdr
.RB [ -h ]
.br
.B ttce2xdr
.RB [ -v ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ttce2xdr
converts ToolTalk types stored in the Classing Engine data base, used by
ToolTalk in versions 1.0.x, to the XDR-format data base used in
version 1.1 and later.
For user type data bases, this conversion is done automatically the
first time a version 1.1 ttsession is started for the user, so
this command generally only needs to be used by administrators updating types
data bases common to systems or the network.
.LP
The first format is used to convert user or system data bases for the
current user or current system.
The second format is used to convert the network-wide data base, and
provides additional options allowing types to be taken from one data
base and stored into another.
.sp 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-x
Show the underlying commands executed by ttce2xdr.
.TP
.B \-v
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-n
Just show underlying commands that would be executed by ttce2xdr.
.TP
.B \-h
Describe the options for ttce2xdr and exit.
.TP
.B \-d
Specify the data base to work on which should be one of user (default),
system, or network. The types are read from the  Classing Engine data
base, which is:
.LP
		user -- ~/.cetables/cetables
.LP
		system -- /etc/cetables/cetables
.LP
		network -- $OPENWINHOME/lib/cetables/cetables
.sp
	The types are written to the XDR data base which is:
.LP
		user -- ~/.tt/types.xdr
.LP
		system -- /etc/tt/types.xdr
.LP
		network -- $OPENWINHOME/etc/tt/types.xdr
.sp
If the
.B network
data base is specified, the optional arguments
.R OPENWINHOME-from
and
.R OPENWINHOME-to
may be specified.
If neither is specified, the current value of the environment
variable OPENWINHOME is used to locate the data bases to be read
and written.
If only OPENWINHOME-from is specified, the data bases under
the directory named by OPENWINHOME-from are read and written.
If both are specified, the data base under OPENWINHOME-from is
read and the data base under OPENWINHOME-to is written.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM CEPATH
In Classing Engine mode,
.B tt_type_comp
will use this variable for its definition of
where the databases are located.  See
.BR ce_db_build (1).
.SM OPENWINHOME
Location of network data bases.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B ~/.tt/types.xdr
User's ToolTalk XDR format types file
.TP 20
.B /etc/tt/types.xdr
System ToolTalk XDR format types file
.TP 20
.B $OPENWINHOME/etc/tt/types.xdr
"Network-wide" ToolTalk XDR format types file
.TP 20
.B $OPENWINHOME/lib/cetables/cetables
Classing Engine database containing the ToolTalk type definitions
.PD
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tt_type_comp (1),
.BR ttsession (1),
.BR ce_db_build (1),
.BR ce_db_merge (1)

