.TH ttdbserver 1M "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.IX "ttdbserver.1m" "" "ttdbserver.1m" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdbserver, rpc.ttdbserverd \- RPC-based ToolTalk database server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
.RB [ -G ]
.RB [ -m \ DTMOUNTPOINT_value ]
.RB [ -n ]
.\".RB [ -t \ level]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -? ]
.\" This was disabled for release 1.0
.\" [-a authentication-level]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
manages ToolTalk objects created by
.BR tt_spec_create (3),
and handles certain queries related to the netfiles returned by
.BR tt_file_netfile (3).
One instance of
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
(normally started by 
.BR inetd )
runs on each host that has a local filesystem.
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
serves four purposes:
.HP 3
1. Mapping a spec to its associated file and a file to its associated specs.
.HP 3
2. Mapping a spec to its properties.
.HP 3
3. Mapping a file to a list of sessions with clients having patterns
registered in the scope of that file.
.HP 3
4. Answering netfile queries; see
.BR tt_file_netfile (3)
and
.BR tt_host_file_netfile (3).
.LP
For each filesystem that
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
needs to store information about, it creates a directory called
TT_DB at the mountpoint of that file system.  In that directory
it creates the databases it needs to store its tables and indices.
If the partition is not writable, then
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
can be told, via
.BR partition_map (4),
to create the databases in another local partition.
If
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
is not installed on a particular file server, ToolTalk can be
told, via
.BR hostname_map (4),
to manage that file server's partitions using the
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
on a different host.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-G
Perform garbage collection.
This cleans up the TT_DB directories and the associated internal
database files.
.TP
.B \-m DTMOUNTPOINT_value
Sets the DTMOUNTPOINT environment variable for
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd .
If there is already an environment variable called DTMOUNTPOINT, -m
will override it.
.TP
.B \-S
Runs rpc.ttdbserverd in the foreground.
.TP
.B \-n
Turn off permission checking.  Normally the protection of the file
passed to
.BR tt_spec_create (3)
determines who may read and write that spec.  This
option disables this checking and allows anyone to read and write any
spec.  This option should be used with caution.
.TP
.B \-v
Print out the version number.
.\".TP
.\".B \-t level
.\"Turns on trace level, the valid level is between 1 to 10.
.TP
.B \-?
Prints out the command usage information.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-a authentication-level
.\" Set the authentication level to either
.\" .I unix
.\" (the default), or to
.\" .I des
.\" which means to use secure RPC.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR DTMOUNTPOINT
If set, the value of this environment variable will be used in place
of "/net" in pathnames constructed to answer
.BR tt_host_netfile_file (3)
queries. This environment variable can also be set by using the -m flag for
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd .
.TP
.BR TT_PARTITION_MAP
If 
.B $TT_PARTITION_MAP 
is set, it is used
in place of /etc/tt/partition_map.  See
.BR partition_map (4).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B TT_DB/*
spec and session database files are kept in the TT_DB directory under each
disk partition mount point.
.TP 20
.B tt/hostname_map
Host redirection map.  See
.BR hostname_map (4).
.TP 20
.B /etc/tt/partition_map
Partition redirection map.  See
.BR partition_map (4).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ttsession (1)
.BR tt_file_netfile (3)
.BR tt_host_file_netfile (3)
.BR tt_spec_create (3)
.BR hostname_map (4)
.BR partition_map (4)
