.TH csa_read_calendar_attributes 3 "14 Oct 94"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 X.400 API Association
.SH NAME
csa_read_calendar_attributes \- read and return the calendar attributes values for a calendar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <csa.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CSA_return_code csa_read_calendar_attributes('u
CSA_return_code csa_read_calendar_attributes(CSA_session_handle \f2session\fP,
	CSA_uint32 \f2number_names\fP,
	CSA_attribute_reference *\f2attribute_names\fP,
	CSA_uint32 *\f2number_attributes\fP,
	CSA_attribute **\f2calendar_attributes\fP
	CSA_extension *\f2read_calendar_attributes_extensions\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn csa_read_calendar_attributes
function returns an array of attributes structures
containing the values of the calendar attributes of the
specified calendar.
The function will return all of the
attributes if
.IR number_names
argument is zero and
.IR attribute_names
argument is
.Cn NULL .
Only the owner of the calendar, users with
.Cn CSA_OWNER_RIGHTS,
or users with
.Cn CSA_VIEW_CALENDAR_ATTRIBUTES
access rights can read the calendar atttributes.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.HU "Session (Session Handle)"
Opaque session handle that represents a session with the
calendaring service.
.P
Session handles are created by a logon function call and
invalidated with a logoff function call.
If the session
handle is invalid, then the error
.Cn CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
is returned.
.HU "Number Names (Uint32)"
The number of calendar attribute names in
.IR attribute_names.
If zero, then all of the attributes will be returned.
If
the
.IR attribute_names
argument is
.Cn NULL ,
then this must be zero.
.HU "Attribute Names (Attribute Names)"
A pointer to an array of attribute names that are to be
read.
If
.Cn NULL ,
then all of the attributes will be returned.
If the
.IR number_names
argument is zero, then this must be
.Cn NULL .
.HU "Read Calendar Attributes Extensions (Extension)"
A pointer to an array of
.B CSA_extension
structures for this function.
The array may contain both
input extensions for providing additional information to
the function and output extensions for receiving
information from the function.
A value of
.Cn NULL
indicates that the caller is not using any extensions.
See the extensions structure for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.HU "Number Attributes (Uint32)"
A pointer to the number of attributes returned in
calendar_attributes.
The error
.Cn CSA_E_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
is returned if there is the service has insufficient memory
to store the complete set of requested information.
.HU "Calendar Attributes (Attribute)"
A pointer to an array of attribute structures containing
the values for the calendar attributes for the specified
calendar.
This array is allocated by the service, and
should be freed with a single call to
.Fn csa_free 3.
.HU "Read Calendar Attributes Extensions (Extension)"
If output extensions were passed to the function in the
extensions list, the results from the service will be
available in the extension.
See the extensions structure for more information.
Whether the function succeeded or
not, and, if not, why.
It may be success or one of the
values listed under ERRORS below.
.SH ERRORS
The
.Fn csa_read_calendar_attributes
function returns the following error values:
.VL 6
.Lc CSA_E_FAILURE
.br
There was a general failure that does not
fit the description of any other error code.
.Lc CSA_E_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Insufficient memory was available to complete the requested operation.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_ATTRIBUTE
.br
An attribute was specified that was not defined by this
specification and the implementation does not support the
attribute as an application specific attribute.
.Lc CSA-E_INVALID_FLAG
.br
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The function extension requested is invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_PARAMETER
.br
A function parameter was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
.br
The specified Session Handle is invalid or no longer valid
(e.g., after logging off).
.Lc CSA_E_NO_AUTHORITY
.br
The user has insufficient authority for this function.
.Lc CSA_E_NOT_SUPPORTED
.br
The operation requested is not supported by this implementation.
.Lc CSA_E_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE
.br
The requested calendar service is unavailable.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_ATTRIBUTE
.br
An attribute was encountered that is unsupported by the calendar service.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FLAG
.br
The flag requested is not supported.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The specified function extension is not supported or
.Cn CSA_EXT_REQUIRED
is set.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd csa.h 5,
.Fn csa_add_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_add_entry 3,
.Fn csa_call_callbacks 3,
.Fn csa_delete_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_delete_entry 3,
.Fn csa_free 3,
.Fn csa_free_time_search 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendars 3,
.Fn csa_list_entries 3,
.Fn csa_list_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_list_entry_sequence 3,
.Fn csa_logoff 3,
.Fn csa_logon 3,
.Fn csa_look_up 3,
.Fn csa_query_configuration 3,
.Fn csa_read_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_next_reminder 3,
.Fn csa_register_callback 3,
.xo .Fn csa_restore 3,
.xo .Fn csa_save 3,
.Fn csa_unregister_callback 3,
.Fn csa_update_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_update_entry_attributes 3.
