.TH csa_list_entry_attributes 3 "14 Oct 94"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 X.400 API Association
.SH NAME
csa_list_entry_attributes \- list the names of the entry attributes associated with the specified entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <csa.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CSA_return_code csa_list_entry_attributes('u
CSA_return_code csa_list_entry_attributes(CSA_session_handle \f2session\fP,
	CSA_entry_handle \f2entry\fP,
	CSA_uint32 *\f2number_names\fP,
	CSA_attribute_reference **\f2entry_attributes_names\fP
	CSA_extension *\f2list_entry_attributes_extensions\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn csa_list_entry_attributes
function lists the names of the entry attributes associated
with a calendar entry.
Using the returned entry attributes
name(s), the attributes value(s) may be read using the
.Fn csa_read_entry_attributes 3
function.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.HU "Session (Session Handle)"
Opaque session handle that represents a session with the
calendaring service.
.P
Session handles are created by a logon function call and
invalidated with a logoff function call.
If the session
handle is invalid, then the error
.Cn CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
is returned.
.HU "Entry (Entry Handle)"
Specifies the handle of the calendar entry that will have
its attributes listed.
If the entry handle is invalid,
then the error
.Cn CSA_E_INVALID_ENTRY_HANDLE
is returned.
.HU "List Entry Attributes Extensions (Extension)"
A pointer to an array of
.B CSA_extension
structures for this function.
The array may contain both
input extensions for providing additional information to
the function and output extensions for receiving
information from the function.
A value of
.Cn NULL
indicates that the caller is not using any extensions.
See the extensions structure for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.HU "Number Names (Uint32)"
A pointer to the number of attribute names returned in
.IR entry_attribute_names.
.HU "Entry Attribute Names (Attribute Reference)"
A pointer to an array of attribute references containing
the names of the entry attributes in the calendar entry.
This array is allocated by the service, and should be freed
with a single call to
.Fn csa_free 3.
.HU "List Entry Attributes Extensions (Extension)"
If output extensions were passed to the function in the
extensions list, the results from the service will be
available in the extension.
See the extensions structure for more information.
Whether the function succeeded or
not, and, if not, why.
It may be success or one of the
values listed under ERRORS below.
.SH ERRORS
The
.Fn csa_list_entry_attributes
function returns the following error values:
.VL 6
.Lc CSA_E_FAILURE
.br
There was a general failure that does not
fit the description of any other error code.
.Lc CSA_E_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Insufficient memory was available to complete the requested operation.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_ENTRY_HANDLE
.br
An invalid calendar entry handle was specified.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FLAG
.br
A flag value in the
.I flags
argument was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The function extension requested is invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_PARAMETER
.br
A function parameter was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
.br
The specified Session Handle is invalid or no longer valid
(e.g., after logging off).
.Lc CSA_E_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE
.br
The requested calendar service is unavailable.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FLAG
.br
The flag requested is not supported.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The specified function extension is not supported or
.Cn CSA_EXT_REQUIRED
is set.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd csa.h 5,
.Fn csa_add_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_add_entry 3,
.Fn csa_call_callbacks 3,
.Fn csa_delete_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_delete_entry 3,
.Fn csa_free 3,
.Fn csa_free_time_search 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendars 3,
.Fn csa_list_entries 3,
.Fn csa_list_entry_sequence 3,
.Fn csa_logoff 3,
.Fn csa_logon 3,
.Fn csa_look_up 3,
.Fn csa_query_configuration 3,
.Fn csa_read_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_next_reminder 3,
.Fn csa_register_callback 3,
.xo .Fn csa_restore 3,
.xo .Fn csa_save 3,
.Fn csa_unregister_callback 3,
.Fn csa_update_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_update_entry_attributes 3.
