.TH csa_call_callbacks 3 "14 Oct 94"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 X.400 API Association
.SH NAME
csa_call_callbacks \- force the invocation of the callback functions associated with the specified callback list(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <csa.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CSA_return_code csa_call_callbacks('u
CSA_return_code csa_call_callbacks(CSA_session_handle \f2session\fP,
	CSA_flags \f2reason\fP,
	CSA_extension *\f2call_callbacks_extensions\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn csa_call_callbacks
function causes the service to call the registered callback
functions associationed with the specified callback
list(s).
The service will process each specified callback
list and call the registered callback functions if there
have been changes that would trigger the callbacks of that
type.
The order in which callbacks are invoked is
implementation specific.
.HU "Session (Session Handle)"
Opaque session handle that represents a session with the
calendaring service.
.P
If a valid session handle is specified, the callback
functions registered with that session are invoked.
Session handles are created by a logon function call and
invalidated with a logoff function call.
If the session
handle is invalid, then the error
.Cn CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
is returned.
.HU "Reason (Flags)"
A bitmask of flags.
Unspecified flags should always be
passed as 0.
Undocumented flags are reserved.
Each flag
corresponds to a callback activity.
Flag settings
include:
.VL 6
.Lc CSA_CB_CALENDAR_LOGON
.br
If set, the new callback will be invoked when a the
calendar is accessed by a user.
.Lc CSA_CB_CALENDAR_DELETED
.br
If set, the new callback will be invoked when a user
requests that the calendar be deleted.
.Lc CSA_CB_CALENDAR_ATTRIBUTE_UPDATED
.br
If set, the new callback will be invoked whenever a
calendar attribute is updated.
.Lc CSA_CB_ENTRY_ADDED
.br
If set, the new callback will be invoked whenever an entry
is added to the calendar.
.Lc CSA_CB_ENTRY_DELETED
.br
If set, the new callback will be invoked whenever an entry
is deleted from the calendar.
.Lc CSA_CB_ENTRY_UPDATED
.br
If set, the new callback will be invoked whenever an entry
is updated on the calendar.
It is implementation specific
if the callback function is invoked before or after the
specified update type occurs.
.LE
.HU "Call Callbacks Extensions (Extension)"
A pointer to an array of
.B CSA_extension
structures for this function.
The array may contain both
input extensions for providing additional information to
the function and output extensions for receiving
information from the function.
A value of
.Cn NULL
indicates that the caller is not using any extensions.
See the extensions structure for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.HU "Call Callbacks Extensions (Extension)"
If output extensions were passed to the function in the
extensions list, the results from the service will be
available in the extension.
See the extensions structure for more information.
Whether the function succeeded or
not, and, if not, why.
It may be success or one of the
values listed under ERRORS below.
.SH ERRORS
The
.Fn csa_call_callbacks
function returns the following error values:
.VL 6
.Lc CSA_E_FAILURE
.br
There was a general failure that does not
fit the description of any other error code.
.Lc CSA_E_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Insufficient memory was available to complete the requested operation.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FLAG
.br
A flag value in the
.I flags
argument was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The function extension requested is invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_PARAMETER
.br
A function parameter was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
.br
The specified Session Handle is invalid or no longer valid
(e.g., after logging off).
.Lc CSA_E_NO_AUTHORITY
.br
The user has insufficient authority for this function.
.Lc CSA_E_NOT_SUPPORTED
.br
The operation requested is not supported by this implementation.
.Lc CSA_E_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE
.br
The requested calendar service is unavailable.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FLAG
.br
The flag requested is not supported.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The specified function extension is not supported or
.Cn CSA_EXT_REQUIRED
is set.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd csa.h 5,
.Fn csa_add_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_add_entry 3,
.Fn csa_delete_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_delete_entry 3,
.Fn csa_free 3,
.Fn csa_free_time_search 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendars 3,
.Fn csa_list_entries 3,
.Fn csa_list_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_list_entry_sequence 3,
.Fn csa_logoff 3,
.Fn csa_logon 3,
.Fn csa_look_up 3,
.Fn csa_query_configuration 3,
.Fn csa_read_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_next_reminder 3,
.Fn csa_register_callback 3,
.xo .Fn csa_restore 3,
.xo .Fn csa_save 3,
.Fn csa_unregister_callback 3,
.Fn csa_update_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_update_entry_attributes 3.
