.TH csa_list_entry_sequence 3 "14 Oct 94"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 X.400 API Association
.SH NAME
csa_list_entry_sequence \- lists the recurring calendar entries that are associated with a calendar entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <csa.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CSA_return_code csa_list_entry_sequence('u
CSA_return_code csa_list_entry_sequence(CSA_session_handle \f2session\fP,
	CSA_entry_handle \f2entry\fP,
	CSA_date_time_range \f2time_range\fP,
	CSA_uint32 *\f2number_entries\fP,
	CSA_entry_handle **\f2entry_list\fP,
	CSA_extension *\f2list_entry_sequence_extensions\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn csa_list_entry_sequence
function returns an array of the entry handles for the
recurring entries associated with a specific calendar
entry.
.P
The entry handles for the recurring calendar entries are
returned in
.IR entry_list.
A
.Cn NULL
is returned if no recurring entries are associated with
this calendar entry.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.HU "Session (Session Handle)"
Opaque session handle that represents a session with the
calendaring service.
.P
Session handles are created by a logon function call and
invalidated with a logoff function call.
If the session
handle is invalid, then the error
.Cn CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
is returned.
.HU "Entry (Entry Handle)"
Specifies the handle of the calendar entry to be accessed
for a list of associated recurring entries.
If the entry
handle is invalid, then the error
.Cn CSA_E_INVALID_ENTRY_HANDLE
is returned.
.HU "Time Range (Date Time Range)"
The date and time range to be used to filter or restrict
the listing of the entry sequence.
The date and time range
specificies a begin and end date and time.
If
.Cn NULL ,
then all entries in the sequence will be returned.
If the
sequence is of an indefinite repitition, then the function
will return implementation specific results.
.HU "List Entry Sequence Extensions (Extension)"
A pointer to an array of
.B CSA_extension
structures for this function.
The array may contain both
input extensions for providing additional information to
the function and output extensions for receiving
information from the function.
A value of
.Cn NULL
indicates that the caller is not using any extensions.
See the extensions structure for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.HU "Number Entries (Uint32)"
The number of calendar entry handles actually returned.
.HU "Entry List (Entry Handle)"
A pointer to an array of calendar entry handles that
represent the recurring entries associated with the
specified calendar entry.
This array is allocated by the
service, and the entire array should be freed with a single
call to
.Fn csa_free 3.
.HU "List Entry Sequence Extensions (Extension)"
If output extensions were passed to the function in the
extensions list, the results from the service will be
available in the extension.
See the extensions structure for more information.
Whether the function succeeded or
not, and, if not, why.
It may be success or one of the
values listed under ERRORS below.
.SH ERRORS
The
.Fn csa_list_entry_sequence
function returns the following error values:
.VL 6
.Lc CSA_E_FAILURE
.br
There was a general failure that does not
fit the description of any other error code.
.Lc CSA_E_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Insufficient memory was available to complete the requested operation.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_DATE_TIME
.br
An invalid date and time combination was specified.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_ENTRY_HANDLE
.br
An invalid calendar entry handle was specified.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FLAG
.br
A flag value in the
.I flags
argument was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The function extension requested is invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_PARAMETER
.br
A function parameter was invalid.
.Lc CSA_E_INVALID_SESSION_HANDLE
.br
The specified Session Handle is invalid or no longer valid
(e.g., after logging off).
.Lc CSA_E_NOT_SUPPORTED
.br
The operation requested is not supported by this implementation.
.Lc CSA_E_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE
.br
The requested calendar service is unavailable.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FLAG
.br
The flag requested is not supported.
.Lc CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION_EXT
.br
The specified function extension is not supported or
.Cn CSA_EXT_REQUIRED
is set.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd csa.h 5,
.Fn csa_add_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_add_entry 3,
.Fn csa_call_callbacks 3,
.Fn csa_delete_calendar 3,
.Fn csa_delete_entry 3,
.Fn csa_free 3,
.Fn csa_free_time_search 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_list_calendars 3,
.Fn csa_list_entries 3,
.Fn csa_list_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_logoff 3,
.Fn csa_logon 3,
.Fn csa_look_up 3,
.Fn csa_query_configuration 3,
.Fn csa_read_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_entry_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_read_next_reminder 3,
.Fn csa_register_callback 3,
.xo .Fn csa_restore 3,
.xo .Fn csa_save 3,
.Fn csa_unregister_callback 3,
.Fn csa_update_calendar_attributes 3,
.Fn csa_update_entry_attributes 3.
