...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtActionLabel 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
\fBDtActionLabel\fP \(em get the localizable label string for an action.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char *DtActionLabel(
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	char	*\fIactionName\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function provides access to the localizable label string associated with an action named,
\fIactionName\fP. This is the string which should be displayed by all GUI components to identify
the action. If the action definition does not specify a label string then the action name itself
is returned.
.PP
The label string associated with an action is localizable.  The action name is not.
All applications displaying action names should use the action label to identify an action. 
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
If an action named, \fIactionName\fP, is found then return a newly allocated copy of the localizable
label string associated with the action.  It is up to the caller to free the memory associated with
this new copy of the label.  The default value for an action label is the action name itself.
.PP
If multiple actions named, \fIactionName\fP, exist then the label string returned will be that
associated with the "most general" action found.  If no action named, \fIactionName\fP, is found then
return NULL.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are reported by this function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionIcon(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR  dtactionfile(4),
.BR  dtdtfile(4)
