.TH DtActionQuitType 3 "02 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtActionQuitType \- determine the potential response to a quit request against outstanding actions
.iX "DtActionQuitType"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtActionStatus DtActionQuitType('u
DtActionStatus DtActionQuitType(DtActionInvocationID \f2id\fP,
	int \f2silent\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtActionQuitType
function can be used to determine if a specific invocation ID
references actions still running, and if so, how they will behave
in response to a
.Fn DtActionQuit 3
call.
.P
The
.I id
argument specifies an invocation ID, as returned by
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.P
The
.I silent
argument is a Boolean that indicates whether the actions
are allowed to block on user input before terminating (see
.Fn DtActionQuit 3).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtActionQuitType
function returns the action status code that is expected
to occur if
.Fn DtActionQuit 3
is called with the same values of the
.I id
and
.I silent
arguments.
This status code is one of the following:
.VL 6
.Lc DtACTION_DONE
.br
The actions that were the result of the original
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
call are expected to terminate normally and return meaningful data, if any.
.Lc DtACTION_DONE_FORCED
.br
It is expected that the actions have to be forcibly
quit, and that any returned data only reflects the state of the data when
the actions were quit.
.Lc DtACTION_DONE_DROPPED
.br
It is expected that the actions have to be abandoned.
The actions may or may not quit on their own, and any returned data
only reflects the state of the data when the actions were abandoned.
.LE
.P
If unsuccessful, the
.Fn DtActionQuitType
function returns:
.VL 6
.Lc DtACTION_INVALID_ID
.br
The specified
.I id
is not valid.
It is possible that the
.I id
was once valid, but that all actions
associated with the
.I id
have since completed.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Since a single
.I id
can reference several actions, and each action
can behave differently to a quit request, the returned
.B DtActionStatus
is prioritized to indicate a
.Cn DtACTION_DONE_FORCED
if any one of the actions have to be forcibly quit; otherwise, it
indicates a
.Cn DtACTION_DONE_DROPPED
if any one of the actions have to be dropped, or it shows a
.Cn DtACTION_DONE
to indicate that all actions represented by
.I id
terminated normally.
.P
If the return value is
.Cn DtACTION_DONE_FORCED
or
.Cn DtACTION_DONE_DROPPED ,
the application may wish to alert the
user of outstanding actions that may, for example, need to be terminated
manually, as the action service may not be able to terminate them
programmatically.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3,
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc 3,
.Fn DtActionQuit 3.
