...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtActionQuitType 3 "02 May 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtActionQuitType(3) \(em  the API for determining the potential
response to a quit request against outstanding actions.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <X11/Intrinsic.h> 
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
DtActionStatus DtActionQuitType (
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	DtActionInvocationID   \fIid\fP,
	int                    \fIsilent\fP,
	int                    \fIforce\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtActionQuitType\fP can be used to determine if an \fIid\fP still
references still-running action(s), and if so, how they would behave
in response to a \fBDtActionQuit\fP call.  Since a single \fIid\fP
may reference several actions, the "worst case" scenario will be
returned.

If the return value suggests that a \fBDtACTION_DONE_FORCED\fP
or \fBDtACTION_DONE_DROPPED\fP status would be returned via
a \fBDtActionStatusUpdateCallbackProc\fP in response to a
\fBDtActionQuit\fP call, the application may wish to alert the
user of outstanding actions.

.IP \fIid\fP
Specifies an invocation ID, as returned by \fBDtActionInvoke\fP.
.IP \fIsilent\fP
A boolean that indicates whether the action(s) are allowed to block
on user input before terminating.   See \fBDtActionQuit\fP.
.IP \fIforce\fP
A boolean that indicates whether the action(s) should terminate
immediately.  See \fBDtActionQuit\fP.
.PP
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.LP
\fBDtACTION_INVALID_ID\fP - the specified \fIid\fP is not valid.   It is
possible that the \fIid\fP was once valid, but that all action(s)
associated with the \fIid\fP have since completed.

\fBDtACTION_DONE\fP - if \fBDtActionQuit\fP is called, it is expected
that the action(s) will quit gracefully and return meaningful data,
if any.

\fBDtACTION_DONE_FORCED\fP - if \fBDtActionQuit\fP is called, it is
expected that the action(s) will have to be forcefully quit, and that
any returned data only reflects the state of the data when the action(s)
were quit.

\fBDtACTION_DONE_DROPPED\fP - if \fBDtActionQuit\fP is called, it is
expected that the action(s) will have to be abandoned.   The action(s)
may or may not quit on their own, and any returned data only reflects
the state of the data when the action(s) were abandoned.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.LP
This function does not return error codes.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- WARNINGS
.\"--- This section lists warnings about special conditions.
.\"---
.\"--- Warnings are NOT diagnostics.
.\"---
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
\fBDtActionQuitType\fP returns "best guess" information.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtDbLoad(3),
.BR  DtActionLabel(3),
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke(3),
.BR  DtActionQuit(3),
.BR  DtActionStatusUpdateCallbackProc(3),
.BR  dtdtfile(4),
.BR  dtspcd(1X),
.BR  ttsession(1)
