...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtActionIcon 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
\fBDtActionIcon\fP \(em get the icon information for an action.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char *DtActionIcon(
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	char	*\fIactionName\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns the name of the icon associated with an action named,
\fIactionName\fP. If the action definition does not explicitly identify an icon
name then this function will return the default action icon name (i.e. Dtactn)
The default action icon name may be customized using the "*actionIcon" X resource.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
If an action named, \fIactionName\fP, is found then this function returns a 
newly allocated copy of the icon name string associated with the action. 
It is up to the caller to free the memory associated with this new copy of the
icon name.
.PP
If multiple actions named, \fIactionName\fP, exist then the returned icon name
will be that associated with the "most general" form of the action found.  
If no action named, \fIactionName\fP, is found then this function returns NULL.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are reported by this function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtActionLabel(3),
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR  dtactionfile(4),
.BR  dtdtfile(4)
