...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtActionExists 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
\fBDtActionExists\fP \(em determine if a string corresponds to an action name.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean DtActionExists (
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	char 	*\fIname\fP )
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function checks whether a given name corresponds to an action name.
This may be useful for GUI components wishing to display different visuals depending on
whether or not a file is an action.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBDtActionExists\fP returns "True" if \fIname\fP corresponds to an existing action name,
"False" otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
No errors messages are reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtActionLabel(3),
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR  dtactionfile(4),
.BR  dtdtfile(4)
