.TH DtActionQuit 3 "4 April 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtActionQuit \- terminate Cde actions
.iX "DtActionQuit"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtActionStatus DtActionQuit('u
DtActionStatus DtActionQuit(DtActionInvocationID \f2id\fP,
	unsigned long \f2timeout\fP,
	int \f2silent\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtActionQuit
function notifies actions associated with
a specific invocation ID to quit as soon as possible.
.P
The
.I id
argument specifies an invocation ID, as returned by
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.P
The
.I timeout
argument controls how
.Fn DtActionQuit
behaves.
If
.I timeout
is set to zero,
.Fn DtActionQuit
asynchronously sends appropriate quit notifications and exits immediately.
As actions receive and process the quit notifications, they may trigger a
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc 3
with the appropriate return status.
If
.I timeout
is set to a positive value,
.Fn DtActionQuit
blocks up to
.I timeout
milliseconds, waiting for all actions to
receive, process and reply to the quit notifications.
The action service drops actions that do not respond within the
.I timeout
period.
Actions that quit within the
.I timeout
period cause
.Fn DtActionQuit
to trigger a
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc 3
immediately with the appropriate return status.
.P
The
.I silent
argument is a Boolean that indicates whether the
actions are allowed to block on user input before terminating.
If False, the actions may choose to post dialogs (for example, for the
purpose of dealing with unsaved changes).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtActionQuit
function returns the following:
.VL 6
.Lc DtACTION_OK
.br
.Fn DtActionQuit
succeeded in initiating the quit requests and the corresponding
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc 3
is called as actions respond to the quit requests.
.LE
.P
If unsuccessful, the
.Fn DtActionQuit
function returns:
.VL 6
.Lc DtACTION_INVALID_ID
.br
The specified
.I id
is not valid.
It is possible that the
.I id
was once valid, but that all actions
associated with the
.I id
have since completed.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtActionQuit
function does not return error codes; however, the user is notified
interactively, via error dialogs, of severe errors.
.Fn DtActionQuit
is not guaranteed to quit all actions.
A
.Cn COMMAND
action, for example, may choose to block the quit signal it receives.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3,
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc 3,
.Fn DtActionQuitType 3.
