.TH DtActionCallbackProc 3 "04 April 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtActionCallbackProc \- notify application that the status of an application has changed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Hd Dt/Action.h
header defines the
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc
callback prototype as follows:
.P
.yS
.ta \w'typedef void (*DtActionCallbackProc)('u
typedef void (*DtActionCallbackProc)(DtActionInvocationID \f2id\fP,
	XtPointer \f2client_data\fP,
	DtActionArg *\f2args\fP,
	int \f2argCount\fP,
	DtActionStatus \f2status\fP);
.yE
.P
If registered when invoking an action with
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3,
a
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc
procedure is called
whenever an action has a status update, such as action termination.
Depending on
.IR status ,
modified action arguments may be returned using
.IR args .
.P
The
.I id
argument specifies an invocation ID as returned by
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.P
The
.I client_data
argument specifies the client data that was
registered with
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.P
The
.I args
argument is an array of updated action argument structures, if there are any.
Individual arguments have their
.I argClass
set to one of the standard argument classes, or
.Cn DtACTION_NULLARG ,
to indicate that the current
status update is not providing an update for the given argument.
If the object has been removed (for example, dropped on the trash), the
return
.I argClass
is set to
.Cn DtACTION_NULLARG
to indicate that it no longer exists.
.P
The
.I args
array has been allocated by
.Fn XtMalloc 3X,
as have any of the
.B char*
or
.B void*
elements contained in each of the
.IR args .
The application is responsible for calling
.Fn XtFree 3X
on all elements contained in each of the
.IR args ,
and then calling
.Fn XtFree 3X
on
.IR args .
.P
The
.I argCount
argument specifies the total number of arguments
in
.IR args .
This number equals the number of arguments originally provided to
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3 .
.P
The
.IR n th
argument in the original action
argument array corresponds to the
.IR n th
argument in an updated action argument array.
.P
The
.I status
argument specifies the purpose of the status update.
The status codes listed here and in
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
may be returned in a
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc :
.VL 6
.Lc DtACTION_INVOKED
.br
The corresponding
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3 ,
which is asynchronous and does not block when starting actions,
has finished starting the requested actions.
For all
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
calls that include a
.Fn DtactionCallbackProc ,
this status code is guaranteed to be returned.
When returned, no additional prompts for data will appear
from the action service.
.br
.Lc DtACTION_DONE
.br
The actions that were the result of the original
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
call have terminated normally.
Once this status value is returned, all registered callbacks are invalidated,
and
.I id
can no longer be used in subsequent action service calls.
Returned
.I args
data may accompany the
.Cn DtACTION_DONE
status code.
For all
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
calls that include a
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc ,
this status code or an equivalent status code (for example,
.Cn DtACTION_CANCELED
or
.Cn DtACTION_FAILED )
is guaranteed to be returned.
.Lc DtACTION_CANCELED
.br
The actions that were the result of the original
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
call were canceled and have terminated normally.
Once this status value is returned, all registered callbacks are
invalidated, and
.I id
can no longer be used in subsequent
action service calls.
No
.I args
data will accompany the
.Cn DtACTION_CANCELED
status code.
.Lc DtACTION_FAILED
.br
An error occured and a normal termination is no longer possible.
The action service may have failed to start the
action or lost contact with and abandoned the action.
Once this status value is returned, an error dialog may be
posted by the action service, all registered callbacks are
invalidated, and
.I id
can no longer be used in subsequent action service calls.
No
.I args
data will accompany the
.Cn DtACTION_FAILED
status code.
.br
.Lc DtACTION_STATUS_UPDATE
.br
The actions associated with
.I id
have generated a status update, such as returning modified
.IR args .
Updates occur in several ways.
.P
If several actions were started from a single
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3,
then as each individual action terminates, a
.Cn DtACTION_STATUS_UPDATE
with return
.I args
is returned, and when the final action
terminates, a
.Cn DtACTION_DONE
or equivalent status code is returned, possibly with return arguments.
.P
Other actions may have the capability to generate updates
(for example, Tooltalk-based actions doing a Media Exchange
Deposit (Request)).
.P
In most cases, a
.I DtActionArg
argument array accompanying a
.Cn DtACTION_STATUS_UPDATE
only has updated data for a few of the arguments; the remaining arguments
are set to
.Cn DtACTION_NULLARG .
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
The following shows how a
.Fn DtActionCallbackProc
might be coded.
.Cs
DtActionCallbackProc myCallback(
     DtActionInvocationID id,
     XtPointer client_data,
     DtActionArg *actionArgPtr,
     int actionArgCount,
     DtActionStatus status);
{
     extern DtActionArg *myUpdatedArgs; /* global hook for new data */
     extern int myDoneFlag; /* global done flag */
.sp 0.5v
     switch (status) {
          case DtACTION_INVOKED:
               /*
                * All the arguments to the original DtActionInvoke
                * have been consumed by actions, and the actions have
                * been started.  Among other things, we will not see
                * any more prompts for user input.
                */
               break;
          case DtACTION_DONE:
               myUpdatedArgs = (DtActionArg *) actionArgPtr;
               myDoneFlag = TRUE;
               break;
          case DtACTION_CANCELED:
          case DtACTION_FAILED:
               if ((actionArgCount != 0) && actionArgPtr) {
                    /*
                     * If not a normal shutdown, throw away returned
                     * information.
                     */
                    for (i=0; i < actionArgCount; i++) {
                         if (actionArgPtr[i].argClass == DtACTION_FILE) {
                              XtFree(actionArgPtr[i].u.file.name);
                         } else if (actionArgPtr[i].argClass ==
                                    DtACTION_BUFFER) {
                              XtFree(actionArgPtr[i].u.buffer.bp);
                              XtFree(actionArgPtr[i].u.buffer.type);
                              XtFree(actionArgPtr[i].u.buffer.name);
                         }
                    }
                    XtFree(actionArgPtr);
               }
               myUpdatedArgs = (DtActionArg *) NULL;
               myDoneFlag = FALSE;
               break;
          case DtACTION_STATUS_UPDATE:
               myUpdatedArgs = (DtActionArg *) actionArgPtr;
               myDoneFlag = FALSE;
               break;
          default:
               /* ignore */
               break;
     }
}
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.Fn DtDbLoad 3,
.Fn DtActionLabel 3,
.Fn DtActionDescription 3,
.Fn DtActionExists 3,
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3,
.cdes
.Fn DtActionType 3,
.Fn XtMalloc 3X,
.Fn XtFree 3X,
.BR dtdtfile (4).
.cdee
.xos
.Fn DtActionType 3;
.Fn XtMalloc 3X,
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt;
.cX dtactionfile .
.xoe
