.TH DtActionDescription 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtActionDescription \- obtain the descriptive text for a given action
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtActionDescription('u
char *DtActionDescription(char *\f2actionName\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtActionDescription
function looks up and returns the descriptive text associated
with the
.I actionName
action.
The
.I actionName
argument is the name of the action.
If there are multiple
.I actionName
actions,
the string returned is the description of the most general.
The most general action is the one with the lowest precedence,
as described in
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4)
.cde (``Action Selection'').
.xo .cX actionselection .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtActionDescription
function returns a newly allocated copy of the description string
associated with the action; otherwise, it returns
.Cn NULL .
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtActionDescription
function is useful for applications that wish to present information
to the user about a particular action.
.P
The application should use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free the description string returned by
.Fn DtActionDescription .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.cdes
.Fn XtFree 3X,
.BR dtactionfile (4),
.BR dtdtfile (4).
.cdee
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt;
.cX dtactionfile ,
.cX dtdtfile .
.xoe
