.TH DtActionLabel 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtActionLabel \- get the localizable label string for an action
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtActionLabel('u
char *DtActionLabel(char *\f2actionName\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtActionLabel
function provides access to the localizable label string associated with an
action named
.IR actionName .
The
.I actionName
argument is the name of the action.
The localizable label string is the string that all components
should display to identify the action.
If the action definition does not specify a label string,
the action name itself is returned.
.P
The label string associated with an action is localizable, but the
action name is not.
.P
If there are multiple
.I actionName
actions, the label string returned
is the label associated with the most general action.
The most general action is the one with the lowest precedence,
as described in
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4)
.cde (``Action Selection'').
.xo .cX actionselection .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtActionLabel
function returns a newly allocated
copy of the localizable
label string associated with the action if an action named
.I actionName
is found;
otherwise, it returns
.Cn NULL .
It is up to the caller to free the memory associated with
this new copy of the label.
The default value for an action label is the action name itself.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
All applications displaying action names should use
the action label to identify an action.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4),
.cde .BR dtdtfile (4).
.xo .cX dtactionfile ,
.xo .cX dtdtfile .
