.TH DtActionIcon 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
.\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtActionIcon \- get the icon information for an action
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtActionIcon('u
char *DtActionIcon(char *\f2actionName\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtActionIcon
function gets the icon information for an action.
The
.I actionName
argument is the name of the action.
.Fn DtActionIcon
returns the name of the icon associated with an
.I actionName
action.
If the action definition does not explicitly identify an icon
name, this function returns the default action icon name,
as described in
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4)
.cde (``Action Selection'').
.xo .cX actionselection .
The default action icon name can be customized using the
.B actionIcon
X resource.
.P
If there are multiple
.I actionName
actions, the string returned is the
icon associated with the most general action.
The most general action is the one with the lowest precedence,
as described in
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4)
.cde (``Action Selection'').
.xo .cX actionselection .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtActionIcon
function returns a
newly allocated copy of the icon name string
(\c
.Cn ICON
field) associated with the action;
otherwise, it returns
.Cn NULL .
.br
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtActionIcon
function is useful for applications that provide a graphical interface
to actions.
.P
The application should use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free the icon name string returned by the
.Fn DtActionIcon
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.cdes
.Fn XtFree 3X
.BR dtactionfile (4),
.BR dtdtfile (4).
.cdee
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt;
.cX dtactionfile ,
.cX dtdtfile .
.xoe
