...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtActionQuit 3 "04 April 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtActionQuit(3) \(em  the API for terminating CDE actions.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <X11/Intrinsic.h> 
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
DtActionStatus DtActionQuit (
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	DtActionInvocationID   \fIid\fP,
	unsigned long          \fItimeout\fP,
	int                    \fIsilent\fP,
	int                    \fIforce\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtActionQuit\fP notifies all actions associated with \fIid\fP
that they should quit as soon as possible.

For \fBCOMMAND\fP actions, a \fBSIGTERM\fP signal is sent to each action
(via \fBdtexec(1)\fP) if \fIforce\fP is true.   If \fIforce\fP is false,
the current behavior is to not send a signal.

For \fBTT_MSG\fP actions, a \fBQuit Request\fP as specified in the
Tooltalk desktop services message set is sent to each action.

.IP \fIid\fP
Specifies an invocation ID, as returned by \fBDtActionInvoke\fP.  An
action which has already triggered its \fBDtActionStatusUpdateCallbackProc\fP
with any termination status will not be quitable.
.IP \fItimeout\fP
If \fItimeout\fP is set to 0, then \fBDtActionQuit\fP will asynchronously
send the appropriate notifications and then exit immediately.   As actions
receive and process the quit notifications, they can trigger a
\fBDtActionStatusUpdateCallbackProc\fP with appropriate return status.

Non-zero \fItimeout\fP values are not currently supported.
.IP \fIsilent\fP
A boolean that indicates whether the action(s) are allowed to block
on user input before terminating.   If false, action(s) may choose
to post dialogs (e.g. for the purpose of dealing with unsaved changes).
.IP \fIforce\fP
A boolean that indicates whether the action(s) should terminate
immediately.  If true, the action(s) may not be given the opportunity
to engage in a graceful shutdown, and data may be lost.
.PP
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.LP
\fBDtActionQuit\fP will return a DtActionStatus value that describes
the most probable disposition of the action(s).

\fBDtACTION_INVALID_ID\fP - the specified \fIid\fP is not valid.   It is
possible that the \fIid\fP was once valid, but that all action(s)
associated with the \fIid\fP have since completed.

\fBDtACTION_DONE\fP - it is expected that the action(s) will quit
gracefully and return meaningful data, if any.

\fBDtACTION_DONE_FORCED\fP - it is expected that the action(s) will have
to be forcefully quit, and that any returned data only reflects the state
of the data when the action(s) were quit.

\fBDtACTION_DONE_DROPPED\fP - it is expected that the action(s) will have
to be abandoned.   The action(s) may or may not quit on their own, and any
returned data only reflects the state of the data when the action(s) were
abandoned.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.LP
This function does not return error codes, however the user will be notified
of severe errors interactively via error dialogs.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- WARNINGS
.\"--- This section lists warnings about special conditions.
.\"---
.\"--- Warnings are NOT diagnostics.
.\"---
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
\fBDtActionQuit\fP is not guaranteed to quit all actions.   A \fBCOMMAND\fP
action for example may choose to block the quit signal it is sent.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtDbLoad(3),
.BR  DtActionLabel(3),
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke(3),
.BR  DtActionQuitType(3),
.BR  DtActionStatusUpdateCallbackProc(3),
.BR  dtdtfile(4),
.BR  dtspcd(1X),
.BR  ttsession(1)
