.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmInsertEntry 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmInsertEntry(3X) \- Insert a new entry in the calendar.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmInsertEntry (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_attrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmEntry *		\fIentry_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmInsertEntry\fP inserts a new entry, which has attributes specified 
in \fIattrs\fP, in the calendar.  The handle to the new entry is stored 
in \fIentry_r\fP. The caller is responsible for freeing the entry by 
calling \fBDtCmFreeEntry\fP when it is done with the entry. Since older 
versions of the CM server support a fixed set of attributes, the 
functions fails if attributes not supported by the server are specified.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar to insert the entry.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the entry's attributes.
.IP "\fInum_attrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in attrs.
.IP "\fIentry_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the handle to the new entry.
.sp .5
.PP
The user needs insert access to insert entries.
.sp
The set of attributes that are supported by all servers is:
.sp
The set of read-only attributes is:


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed successfully. The handle to the new entry is returned 
in \fIentry_r\fP.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have insert access on the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED\fP" 2.5i
Attributes not supported by the server are specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_READONLY\fP" 2.5i
Read-only attribute specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeEntry (3X)
