.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmSetCalendarAttributes 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmSetCalendarAttributes(3X) \- Set calendar attribute values.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmSetCalendarAttributes (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_attrs\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmSetCalendarAttributes\fP sets the attribute values specified in 
\fIattrs\fP which is a pointer to an array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP 
structures with \fInum_attrs\fP elements. The existing value of the 
attribute will be replaced by the new value.  New attributes can be 
added using this function and existing attributes can be deleted by 
setting the value part of the \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structure to \fBNULL\fP. 
If a read only attribute is specified, the function returns an error. 
If the function returns an error, none of the specified attributes 
will be updated. Only the owner of the calendar can set the 
calendar attributes.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar to set attribute values.
.IP "\fInattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structures which contains the 
attribute names and values.
.IP "\fInum_attrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in \fIattrs\fP.
.sp .5
.PP


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed successfully.

.TP 15
names_r
If the function is successful, an array of calendar names is returned in names_r; otherwise NULL is returned.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_OWNER\fP" 2.5i
The client is not the owner of the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_READONLY\fP" 2.5i
Read-only attribute specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
No space left on device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmRemoveCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmGetCalendarAttributes (3X),
.BR DtCmEnumerateCalendarAttributes (3X)
