.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmDeleteEntry 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmDeleteEntry(3X) \- Delete an entry from the calendar.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmDeleteEntry (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmEntry	\fIentry\fP,
.br
        DtCmEditScope	\fIscope\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmDeleteEntry\fP deletes the entry specified in \fIentry\fP from the 
associated calendar. If the entry refers to a one time entry, \fIscope\fP 
is ignored; otherwise, it specifies the scope of the repeating entry to 
be affected by the delete operation. Scope specifies one of 
\fBDT_CM_SCOPE_ALL, DT_CM_SCOPE_ONE\fP, and \fBDT_CM_SCOPE_FORWARD\fP.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIentry\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the entry to delete.
.IP "\fIscope\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the scope of the entry to be affected by the operation.
.sp .5
.PP

Only users with update permission or the author of an entry can delete the entry.

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed successfully.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have permission to delete the entry.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_EXIST\fP" 2.5i
The entry does not exist.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on the device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmInsertEntry (3X),
.BR DtCmInsertEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmUpdateEntry (3X),
.BR DtCmUpdateEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmEnumerateSequence (3X)
