.TH DtCMSetBodyPartContents 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMSetBodyPartContents \- set the content of a body part
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMSetBodyPartContents('u
void DtCMSetBodyPartContents(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName \f2type_name\fP,
	CMPtr \f2data\fP,
	CMSize \f2data_size\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContents
function is used to set the content of the body part.
The current content and type information for the body part are replaced
with the values provided by this function.
The size of the existing contents for the body part are adjusted to match
the new size specified.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I type_name
argument is the type associated with the contents.
The type must be one of the names listed in
.cX datafmtnaming .
The
.I data
argument is the data to be written as the contents of the body part.
The
.I data_size
argument is the size of the contents buffer in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContents
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContents
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContents 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
