.TH DtCMGetBodyPartProperty 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMGetBodyPartProperty \- get a property from a body part
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMGetBodyPartProperty('u
void DtCMGetBodyPartProperty(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName \f2property\fP,
	CMGlobalName *\f2type_name\fP,
	CMPtr *\f2data\fP,
	CMSize *\f2data_size\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartProperty
function retrieves a property value.
If a
.I property
argument does not exist for the object, the pointers are set to
.Cn NULL .
This function does not retrieve partial information on a
property.
The memory pointed to by the
.I type_name,
.I data,
and
.I data_size
arguments must be released using the
.Fn free 3C
function.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I property
argument is the name of the property to set or overwrite.
If the property already exists, its value is replaced with the new data.
.P
The
.I type_name
argument is the type of the property value,
which can be any type string.
The application can use the
.BR DtCMTypesString
value to indicate a null-terminated string of characters.
The
.I data
argument is the value associated with the value.
The
.I data_size
argument is the size of the data value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartProperty
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartProperty
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartProperty 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB;
.cde .Fn free 3C.
.xo .Fn free
.xo in the \*(ZK.
