.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmOpenCalendar 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmOpenCalendar(3X) \- Create a calendar object and open a connection to the calendar specified.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmOpenCalendar (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        const char *	\fIname\fP,
.br
        const char *	\fIlocation\fP,
.br
        boolean_t	\fIcreate_calendar\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_attrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmCalendar *		\fIcal_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmOpenCalendar\fP creates a calendar object, opens a connection 
to the specified ca lendar, and returns a handle to the calendar 
object. If the calendar exists, create_calendar, attrs and num_attrs 
are ignored. Otherwise if create_calendar is \fBB_TRUE\fP, a new calendar 
will be created for the user of the calling application and it 
will be initialized with the attributes specified in attrs. If 
the calendar does not exist and create_calendar is \fBB_FALSE\fP, an error 
status is returned and a calendar object is not created.  When 
the application is through with the calendar, \fBDtCmCloseCalendar\fP 
should be called to free the calendar object.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIname\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the name of the calendar.
.IP "\fIlocation\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the location of the CM server.
.IP "\fIcreate_calendar\fP" 1.25i
Specifies whether to create the calendar if it does not exist.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the attributes to set on the new calendar.
.IP "\fInum_attrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in \fIattrs\fP.
.IP "\fIcal_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the calendar handle.
.sp .5
.PP
The user needs access permission to open a calendar.


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed success fully. If the function is successful, a calendar handle is stored in cal_r.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
One of the following status values may be returned:
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
No permission to do the operation.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_EXIST\fP" 2.5i
The calendar does not exist.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_READONLY\fP" 2.5i
Read-only attribute specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not space left on device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmListCalendars (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmRemoveCalendar (3X)
