.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmFreeEntries 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmFreeEntries(3X) \- Free an array of entry objects.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmFreeEntries (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmEntry *	\fIentries\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_entries\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmFreeEntries\fP frees the entry objects in the array. It then 
frees up the memory occupied by the array. It destroys the local copy 
of the entries and does not affect the corresponding entries in the 
calendar.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIentries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the list of entries to free.
.IP "\fInum_entries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the size of the array pointed to by entries.
.sp .5
.PP


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns no value.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
To free the array of entry objects:

DtCmFreeEntries(entries, num_entries);
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmEnumerateEntries (3X)
