.TH DtCMGetBodyPartContainer 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMGetBodyPartContainer \- open the embedded container of a body part
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CMContainer DtCMGetBodyPartContainer('u
CMContainer DtCMGetBodyPartContainer(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName *\f2type_name\fP,
	CMContainerUseMode \f2use_mode\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContainer
function returns a handle to an open embedded container if
the body-part content is a container.
The application can use this handle to access the container.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I type_name
argument is a pointer to a
.BR CMGlobalName
that stores the contents type name.
The
.I use_mode
argument is the open mode for the embedded container.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContainer
function returns an open container handle to the embedded container.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContainer
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use the
.Fn CMRCloseContainer
function to close the handle.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContainer 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRCloseContainer ,
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
