.TH DtCMSetBodyPartContainer 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMSetBodyPartContainer \- set the content of a body part to a container
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CMContainer DtCMSetBodyPartContainer('u
CMContainer DtCMSetBodyPartContainer(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName \f2type_name\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContainer
function sets the content of the body part to an embedded container.
It creates the embedded container and returns a handle to the container.
If the body part has an existing value, this
value is destroyed and a new value is created for the container.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I type_name
argument is the type associated with the container.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContainer
function returns an open container handle to a new embedded container.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContainer
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should close the container handle with the
.Fn CMRCloseContainer .
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContainer 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRCloseContainer ,
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
