.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmGetEntryAttributes 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmGetEntryAttributes(3X) \- Get attribute values of an entry.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmGetEntryAttributes (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmEntry	\fIentry\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int 		\fInum_attrs\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmGetEntryAttributes\fP gets the attribute values of the attributes 
specified in attrs, which is a pointer to an array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP 
structure with \fInum_attrs\fP elements. If an attribute specified in 
\fIattrs\fP is not found, the value field \fIval\fP of the corresponding 
element is set to \fBNULL\fP.
 
The application is responsible for freeing the returned attribute values. 
See \fBDtCmFreeAttributeValues\fP.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIentry\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the entry to get the attribute values.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structures which contains
the attribute names and address to return the attribute values.
.IP "\fInum_attrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in \fIattrs\fP.
.sp .5
.PP


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed successfully. If it is successful, attribute values are 
returned in the array pointed to by \fIattrs\fP.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
To get at the time attribute for an entry, do the following.  It is
assumed that DtCmLookupEntries had already been called.

get_time(DtCmAttributes *attrs, DtCmEntry *entries, int num_attrs)
{
	DtCmStatus stat;
	int i, time, num_entries;

	attrs[0].name = DT_CM_ATTR_TIME;
	num_attrs = 1;

	for (i = 0; i < num_entries; i++) {
		DtCmGetEntryAttributes(entries[i], attrs, num_attrs);
		time = attrs[APPT_TIME].attr_nval;
	}
}

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeAttributeValues (3X)
