.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmUpdateEntry 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmUpdateEntry(3X) \- Update an entry in the calendar.	
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmUpdateEntry (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_attrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmEditScope	\fIscope\fP,
.br
        DtCmEntry *	\fInew_entry_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmUpdateEntry\fP updates the entry specified by \fIentry\fP in the 
associated calendar.  The new attribute values are specified by \fIattrs\fP 
which is a pointer to an array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structures with 
\fInum_attrs\fP elements. If the entry refers to a one time entry, 
\fIscope\fP is ignored; otherwise, it specifies the scope of the repeating 
entry to be affected by the update operation. \fIScope\fP specifies one of 
\fBDT_CM_SCOPE_ALL, DT_CM_SCOPE_ONE\fP, and \fBDT_CM_SCOPE_FORWARD\fP.  
The handle to the updated entry is returned in \fInew_entry_r.\fP The caller 
is responsible for freeing the returned entry by calling \fBDtCmFreeEntry\fP 
when it is done with it. Since CM servers of versions 2 to 4 support a 
fixed set of attributes, the function fails if attributes not supported by 
the server are specified. For CM servers of version 5 and beyond, new 
attributes can be added using this function and existing attributes can 
be deleted by setting the value part of the \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structure to 
\fBNULL\fP. If a read only attribute is specified, the function returns 
an error. If the function returns an error, none of the specified attributes 
will be updated.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIentry\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the entry to update.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the entry's attributes.
.IP "\fInum_attrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in attrs.
.IP "\fIscope\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the scope of the entry to be affected by the update.
.IP "\fInew_entry_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the handle to the new entry.
.sp .5
.PP
Only users with update permission or the author of an entry can change the entry.
.sp
The set of attributes that are supported by all servers is:
.sp
The set of read-only attributes is:
.sp
Applications that wish to create new attribute names should follow the 
following conventions:


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed successfully. The handle to the new entry is returned 
in \fInew_entry_r\fP.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have insert access on the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_EXIST\fP" 2.5i
The entry does not exist.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED\fP" 2.5i
Attributes not supported by the server are specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_READONLY\fP" 2.5i
Read-only attribute specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeEntry (3X)
