.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmCloseCalendar 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmCloseCalendar(3X) \- Close the connection to the calendar and destroy the calendar object.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmCloseCalendar (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar *		\fIcal\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmCloseCalendar\fP closes the connection to the calendar, destroys 
the calendar object and frees up all the resources used by it. This 
function should be called when the application is through working on 
the calendar.  After this call, the calendar handle becomes invalid and 
should n ot be used again.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar object.
.sp .5
.PP


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed success fully.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
One of the following status values may be returned:
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmListCalendars (3X),
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmRemoveCalendar (3X)
