.TH DtCMInitDocument 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMInitDocument \- initialize a Cde container document for access
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtCMDocument DtCMInitDocument('u
DtCMDocument DtCMInitDocument(CMContainer \f2container\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMBoolean \f2create\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMInitDocument
function initializes a
.BR DtCMDocument
handle from a container.
The container can be an existing Cde container document, a new
empty container, or a container from another application.
If the container is new or from another application that does
not have Cde container document objects, the application must set the
.I create
parameter to
.Cn CM_TRUE ,
or an error will be returned.
Setting
.I create
to
.Cn CM_TRUE
adds Cde container document objects to the container
if they do not already exist.
.P
The
.I container
argument is an open Cde document container handle.
The container must be open for
update if
.I create
is
.Cn CM_TRUE .
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
For the
.I create
argument, a value of
.Cn CM_TRUE
causes Cde container document objects to be added if they do not already exist.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMInitDocument
function returns a
.BR DtCMDocument
handle.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMInitDocument
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMFiniDocument 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
