.TH DtCMReleaseBodyPart 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMReleaseBodyPart \- release a DtCMBodyPart structure
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMReleaseBodyPart('u
void DtCMReleaseBodyPart(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart
function frees any transient storage and any Bento objects
associated with a body part.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should call
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart
for each
.Fn DtCMBodyPart
structure returned by the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
