.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmEnumerateSequence 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmEnumerateSequence(3X) \- Enumerate instances of a repeating entry within the specified time range.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmEnumerateSequence (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmEntry	\fIentry\fP,
.br
        time_t	\fIstart\fP,
.br
        time_t	\fIend\fP,
.br
        DtCmEntry **\fIentries_r\fP,
.br
        int *\fInum_entries_r\fP);
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmEnumerateSequence\fP enumerates instances of a repeating entry 
referred to by entry within the specified time range. If both \fIstart\fP 
and \fIend\fP are set to zero, all instances of the repeating entry are 
returned. However, if it is a repeating entry that repeats infinitely, 
a time range must be specified; otherwise the function returns an error.
 
The entries are returned in \fIentries_r\fP and the number of entries returned in \fInum_entries_r\fP.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIentry\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the repeating entry.
.IP "\fIstart\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the lower bound of the time range.
.IP "\fIend\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the upper bound of the time range.
.IP "\fIentries_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the list of entry handles.
.IP "\fInum_entries_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the number of entries in entries.
.sp .5
.PP


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed successfully.
 
The handles to the entries found are returned in \fIentries_r\fP. 
\fBNULL\fP is returned if no entry is found or if the function fails. 
For the former case, \fBDT_CM_OK\fP is returned by the function while 
an error status is returned in the latter case. The application is 
responsible for freeing the returned entries. See \fBDtCmFreeEntries\fP.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
To get instances of the repeating series referred to by entry that
happened at or after the start_time and happened at or before the end_time:

DtCmStatus stat;
.br
DtCmEntry entry, *entries;
.br
time_t start_time, end_time;
.br
int size;

stat = DtCmEnumerateSequence(entry, start_time, end_time, &entries, &size);

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmDeleteEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmDeleteEntry (3X),
.BR DtCmUpdateEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmUpdateEntry (3X)
