.TH DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType \- set the type and format for the body-part content
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType('u
void DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName \f2type_name\fP,
	CMMetaHandler \f2meta_handler\fP,
	...);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType
function changes the current format type for the body-part content.
For example, if a text body part is being stored as a simple stream
of bytes, this function
could be used to change the format to a compressed byte stream.
The application must provide a type name, a dynamic value metahandler, and any
optional arguments required by the dynamic value handler's new operation.
The current content of the body part is read and then replaced in the
new storage format.
This is done as a simple read, delete, and write operation.
If more complex algorithms are required, the application should not use this
function.
A list of supported format type names is provided in the
.B <Bento/DtCM.h>
entry.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I type_name
argument is the new format type name.
The meta handler is registered with the type name for the container.
The
.I meta_handler
argument is the metahandler for the new dynamic value handler.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
Chapter 5, ``Types and Dynamic Values,''
and
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
