.TH DtCMOpen 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMOpen \- create or open a Cde document container
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CMContainer DtCMOpen('u
CMContainer DtCMOpen(CMSession \f2session\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	const char *\f2path\fP,
	int \f2open_flag\fP,
	...
	mode_t \f2mode\fP,
	const char *\f2magic_bytes\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMOpen
function creates or opens a Cde document container using the Cde file handler.
The
.I open_flag
argument accepts the same flags as the
.Fn open 2
function.
If the
.I open_flag
argument includes
.Cn O_CREAT ,
then the optional
.I mode
and
.I magic_bytes
arguments are required; otherwise, they are ignored.
The
.I session
argument is a session handle from
.Fn DtCMStartSession 3
or
.Fn CMRStartSession .
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I path
argument specifies the path to be opened.
Any path valid to the
.Fn open 2
function may be used.
.P
The
.I open_flag
argument accepts the same values as
.Fn open 2
function.
Common flags are
.Cn O_RDONLY ,
.Cn O_RDWR ,
and
.Cn O_WRONLY .
The application can use the bitwise inclusive OR of
.Cn O_CREAT
with any of the previous flags to create a new Cde document container.
The
.I mode
argument is used when
.Cn O_CREAT
is specified; otherwise, the
.I mode
argument is ignored.
.P
The
.I magic_bytes
argument is used when
.Cn O_CREAT
is specified; otherwise,
.I magic_bytes
is ignored.
The first 64 bytes of this string are stored as the magic-byte
sequence in the container header.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMOpen
function returns a valid container handle.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMOpen
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMROpenContainer ,
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB;
.cde .Fn open 2.
.xo .Fn open
.xo in the \*(ZK.
