.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmLookupEntries 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmLookupEntries(3X) \- Lookup entries that match the given criteria.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmLookupEntries (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmOperator *	\fIoperators\fP,
.br
        int		\fIsize\fP,
.br
        DtCmEntry **	\fIentries_r\fP,
.br
        int *		\fInum_entries_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmLookupEntries\fP looks up entries that matches all of the given 
criteria. The array of entries found are returned in \fIentries_r\fP and 
the number of entries returned in \fInum_entries_r\fP.
.sp
The matching criteria are specified by the array of attributes and the 
array of operators. Each operator in \fIoperators\fP specifies how the 
corresponding attribute value is to be matched. The following operators 
are supported: \fBDT_CM_MATCH_ANY, DT_CM_MATCH_EQUAL_TO, 
DT_CM_MATCH_NOT_EQUAL_TO, DT_CM_MATCH_LESS_THAN, 
DT_CM_MATCH_LESS_THAN_OR_EQUAL_TO, DT_CM_MATCH_GREATER_THAN, 
DT_CM_MATCH_GREATER_THAN_OR_EQUAL_TO, and DT_CM_MATCH_CONTAIN\fP. The 
operator \fBDT_CM_MATCH_ANY\fP matches an entry that contains the 
corresponding attribute regardless of the value. The operator 
\fBDT_CM_MATCH_CONTAIN\fP applies to character strings only. The 
only operators supported for reminder type attributes are 
\fBDT_CM_MATCH_ANY\fP and \fBDT_CM_MATCH_EQUAL_TO\fP.
.sp
Searching of attributes with opaque type data is not supported.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar to be archived.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the matching criteria.
.IP "\fIoperators\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the matching operator for the corresponding attributes in \fIattrs\fP.
.IP "\fIsize\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the size of the array pointed to by \fIattrs\fP and \fIoperators\fP.
.IP "\fIentries_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the list of entry handles.
.IP "\fInum_entries_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the number of elements in entries.
.sp .5
.PP
The user needs browse permission to do lookups.


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed succe ssfully.
 
The handles to the matching entries are returned in \fIentries_r\fP. 
\fBNULL\fP is returned if no entry is found or if the function fails. 
For the former case, \fBDT_CM_OK\fP is returned by the function while 
an error status is returned in the latter case. The application is 
responsible for freeing the returned entries.  See \fBDtCmFreeEntries\fP.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
No permission to do the operation.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OPERATOR\fP" 2.5i
Invalid matching operator specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES

To look up an entry:

lookup_entries(DtCmcalendar cal_handle, int start, int end)
{
	DtCmStatus stat;
	DtCmAttribute attrs[NUM_ATTRS];
	DtCmEntry *entries;
	int num_attrs, num_entries;

	range.start = start;
	range.end = end;
	stat = DtCmLookupEntries(cal_handle, &range, NULL, 0, &entries, &num_entries);
}

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
