.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmArchive 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmArchive(3X) \- Archive entries in the calendar to a file.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmArchive (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        const char *	\fIpath_name\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmOperator *	\fIoperators\fP,
.br
        int		\fIsize\fP,
.br
        boolean_t	\fIdelete_entry\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmArchive\fP archives entries that matches all the given criteria to 
a file. The path name specified is local to the machine where the 
application runs. If \fIdelete_entry\fP is \fBB_TRUE\fP, the archived 
entries are also deleted from the calendar. If \fIattrs\fP is set 
to \fBNULL\fP, the whole calendar is archived. If the file specified 
by \fIpath_name\fP exists, it is not overwritten and the function 
returns an error status.  Only the owner of the calendar can do an archive.
.sp
The matching criteria are specified by the array of attributes and the 
array of operators. Each operator in \fIoperators\fP specifies how the 
corresponding attribute value is to be matched. The following operators 
are supported: \fBDT_CM_MATCH_ANY, DT_CM_MATCH_EQUAL_TO, 
DT_CM_MATCH_NOT_EQUAL_TO, DT_CM_MATCH_LESS_THAN, 
DT_CM_MATCH_LESS_THAN_OR_EQUAL_TO, DT_CM_MATCH_GREATER_THAN, 
DT_CM_MATCH_GREATER_THAN_OR_EQUAL_TO, and DT_CM_MATCH_CONTAIN\fP. The 
operator \fBDT_CM_MATCH_ANY\fP matches an entry that contains the 
corresponding attribute regardless of the value. The operator 
\fBDT_CM_MATCH_CONTAIN\fP applies to character strings only. The 
only operators supported for reminder type attributes are 
\fBDT_CM_MATCH_ANY\fP and \fBDT_CM_MATCH_EQUAL_TO\fP.
.sp
Searching of attributes with opaque type data is not supported.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar to be archived.
.IP "\fIpath_name\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the name of the archive.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the matching criteria.
.IP "\fIoperators\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the matching operator for the corresponding attributes in \fIattrs\fP.
.IP "\fIsize\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the size of the array pointed to by \fIattrs\fP and \fIoperators\fP.
.IP "\fIdelete_entry\fP" 1.25i
Specifies whether the archived entries are to be deleted from the calendar.
.sp .5
.PP


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed successfully.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_EXIST\fP" 2.5i
The file already exists.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_OWNER\fP" 2.5i
The client is not the owner of the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED\fP" 2.5i
Functionality not supported by the server.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OPERATOR\fP" 2.5i
Invalid matching operator specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on the device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmRestore (3X)
