.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmInsertEntries 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmInsertEntries(3X) \- Insert new entries in the calendar.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmInsertEntries (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes *	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_entries\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_attrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmEntry **		\fIentries_r\fP,
.br
        DtCmStatus **		\fIstatus_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmInsertEntries\fP inserts a list of entries in the calendar. The 
attributes of the entries are specified by \fIattrs\fP which is an 
array of \fBDtCmAttributes\fP with \fInum_entries\fP elements. 
Each element, pointing to an array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structures, 
specifies the attributes for one entry. An array of handles to the 
new entries is returned in \fIentries_r\fP. The array has \fInum_entries\fP 
elements. It is possible that some entries are inserted successfully 
and some are not. In that case, \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP will be returned 
by the function and the corresponding element in the returned array will 
be set to \fBNULL\fP. If \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP is returned and 
\fIstatus_r\fP is not \fBNULL\fP, an array of status values with 
\fInum_entries\fP elements will be returned in \fIstatus_r\fP. Each 
status value indicates whether the corresponding entry is inserted 
successfully or an error occurred. The caller is responsible for 
freeing the returned arrays by calling \fBDtCmFreeEntries\fP and free 
respectively.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar to insert the entry.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the entry's attributes.
.IP "\fInum_entries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in attrs.
.IP "\fIentries_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns an array of handles to the new entries.
.IP "\fIstatus_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns an array of status values.
.sp .5
.PP
The user needs insert access to insert entries.
.sp
The set of attributes that are supported by all servers is:
.sp
The set of read-only attributes is:


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed succe ssfully. If \fBDT_CM_OK\fP or \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP 
is returned, an array of handles to the new entries is returned in 
\fIentries_r\fP. If the function returns \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP and 
\fIstatus_r\fP is not \fBNULL\fP, an array of status values for the 
corresponding entries will be returned in \fIstatus_r\fP.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
One of the following status values may be returned:
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have insert access on the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP" 2.5i
Only some entries are inserted successfully.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
One of the following status values may be stored in the array returned 
in \fIstatus_r\fP.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED\fP" 2.5i
Attributes not supported by the server are specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_READONLY\fP" 2.5i
Read-only attribute specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeEntries (3X)
