.TH DtCMGetBodyPartContents 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMGetBodyPartContents \- get the contents of a body part
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMGetBodyPartContents('u
void DtCMGetBodyPartContents(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName *\f2type_name\fP,
	CMPtr *\f2data\fP,
	CMSize *\f2data_size\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContents
function returns all or part of the content information for a
body part.
This function does not retrieve pointers for information buffers that are
.Cn NULL .
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.P
The
.I type_name
argument is a pointer to a
.BR CMGlobalName
that stores the content type name.
The type must be one of the names listed in
.cX datafmtnaming .
.P
The
.I data
argument is the content stream for the body part.
If this pointer is not
.Cn NULL ,
then the
.I data_size
argument must not be
.Cn NULL .
The
.I data_size
argument is the size of the contents in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContents
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContents
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should release the memory pointed to by the returned
information using the
.Fn free 3C
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContents 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB;
.cde .Fn free 3C.
.xo .Fn free
.xo in the \*(ZK.
