.TH DtCMIsBodyPartContainer 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMIsBodyPartContainer \- determine if the body-part content is a container
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CMBoolean DtCMIsBodyPartContainer('u
CMBoolean DtCMIsBodyPartContainer(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMIsBodyPartContainer
function determines that the body-part content is an embedded container.
This is done by inspecting the handlers associated with the content type.
If the application has special container types, it must register the
metahandlers for these types prior to calling this function.
Applications can also inspect the type name to determine if the content is
a container.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMIsBodyPartContainer
function returns
.Cn CM_TRUE
if the body-part content is a container;
otherwise, it returns
.Cn CM_FALSE .
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMIsBodyPartContainer
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartContainer 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartContainer 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
