.TH DtCMReadMagicBytes 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMReadMagicBytes \- retrieve the magic-byte sequence
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtCMReadMagicBytes('u
char *DtCMReadMagicBytes(const char *\f2path\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMReadMagicBytes
function retrieves the magic-byte sequence
from an existing Cde document container.
This function returns
.Cn NULL
if this container is not created with a handler that supports
application-specific magic-byte sequences, or if the path does not point at
a container.
.P
The
.I path
argument is the path checked for magic bytes.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMReadMagicBytes
function returns a magic-byte sequence.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMReadMagicBytes
returns
.Cn NULL ,
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use the
.Fn free 3C
function to release the returned string.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMOpen 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB;
.cde .Fn free 3C.
.xo .Fn free
.xo in the \*(ZK.
