.TH DtCMIsDocument 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMIsDocument \- determine if a container is a Cde container document
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CMBoolean DtCMIsDocument('u
CMBoolean DtCMIsDocument(CMContainer \f2container\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMIsDocument
function returns
.Cn CM_TRUE
if the container is a Cde container document.
This function determines that a container is a Cde container document by
looking for a root object.
It is possible to have an
.I empty
container document that is a container with a root object but has no
body parts.
.P
The
.I container
argument is an open Cde document container handle.
The container must be open for update if create is
.Cn CM_TRUE .
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMIsDocument
function returns
.Cn CM_TRUE
if the container is a Cde container document;
otherwise, it returns
.Cn CM_FALSE .
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMIsDocument
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMFiniDocument 3,
.Fn DtCMInitDocument 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
