.TH DtCMMemoryDestroy 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMMemoryDestroy \- destroy a Bento memory-container reference constant
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMMemoryDestroy('u
void DtCMMemoryDestroy(CMRefCon \f2ref_con\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMMemoryDestroy
function destroys any memory associated with a memory reference constant.
If
.Fn DtCMMemoryDestroy
is called to destroy a buffer not created by
.Fn DtCMMemoryCreate 3
or if the container associated with the
reference constant is not open,
the results are undefined.
.P
The
.I ref_con
argument is a reference constant created with the
.Fn DtCMMemoryCreate 3
function.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMMemoryDestroy
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMMemoryDestroy
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should call
.Fn DtCMMemoryDestroy
for each container opened with the
.Fn DtCMMemoryCreate 3
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMMemoryCreate 3,
.Fn DtCMMemoryInfo 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
