.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmLookupReminder 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmLookupReminder(3X) \- Lookup the next reminder of the specified type in the calendar relative to the given time.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmLookupReminder (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmCalendar	\fIcal\fP,
.br
        time_t		\fItick\fP,
        char **	\fIreminder_names\fP,
        int		\fInum_names\fP,
.br
        DtCmReminderList *	\fIreminder_list_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmLookupReminder\fP looks up the next reminder of the specified type 
in the calendar relative to the given time specified in \fItick\fP. More 
than one type of reminder can be specified. The attribute names of the 
reminders of interest are specified in \fIreminder_names\fP which has 
\fInum_names\fP elements. If \fIreminder_names\fP is NULL, the next 
reminder to happen relative to the given time is returned. More than one 
reminder is returned if they are to happen at the same time. Note that 
CM servers of version 2 to 4 only manages reminders that have not 
expired yet. Therefore if the time specified is earlier than the 
current time, the next reminder to happen relative to the current 
time is returned.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIcal\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the calendar to do the lookup.
.IP "\fItick\fP" 1.25i
Specifies a time value.
.IP "\fIreminder_names\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the attribute names of the reminders of interest.
.IP "\fInum_names\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in reminder_names.
.IP "\fIreminder_list_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns the list of reminders.
.sp .5
.PP

Only the owner of the calendar can lookup reminders.


.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is completed successfully.
 
A linked list of reminders are returned in \fIreminder_list_r\fP. A 
\fBNULL\fP pointer is returned if no reminder is found or if the 
function fails. For the former case, \fBDT_CM_OK\fP is returned by 
the function while an error status is returned in the latter case. 
The application is responsible for freeing the reminder list. 
See \fBDtCmFreeReminderList\fP.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_OWNER\fP" 2.5i
The client is not the owner of the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeReminderList (3X)
