.TH DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMGetNextBodyPart \- retrieve each body part in order
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtCMBodyPart *DtCMGetNextBodyPart('u
DtCMBodyPart *DtCMGetNextBodyPart(DtCMDocument \f2document\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	DtCMBodyPart *\f2previous\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart
function returns body parts in document order.
.P
The
.I document
argument is a document handle created by the
.Fn DtCMInitDocument 3
function.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I previous
argument is the last body part retrieved, or
.Cn NULL
to retrieve the first body part.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart
function returns a
.BR DtCMBodyPart
structure, or
.Cn NULL
if no body parts exist.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The document order may be different
from the container order because it is controlled by the ordering
information stored in the root object.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
