.TH DtCMSetBodyPartProperty 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMSetBodyPartProperty \- set properties for a body part
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMSetBodyPartProperty('u
void DtCMSetBodyPartProperty(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMGlobalName \f2property\fP,
	CMGlobalName \f2type_name\fP,
	CMPtr \f2data\fP,
	CMSize \f2data_size\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartProperty
function sets arbitrary properties on a body part.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I property
argument is the name of the property to set or overwrite.
If the property already exists, its value is replaced with the new data.
.P
The
.I type_name
argument is the type of the property value
and can be any type string.
The value
.BR DtCMTypesString
can be used to indicate a null-terminated
string of characters.
The
.I data
argument is the value to associate with the data.
The
.I data_size
argument is the size of the data value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartProperty
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartProperty
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartProperty 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
