.TH DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType \- get the current format type name
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'CMGlobalName DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType('u
CMGlobalName DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType(DtCMBodyPart *\f2body_part\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType
function returns the current format type name for the body part.
A list of supported format type names is provided in the
.B <Bento/DtCM.h>
entry.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType
function returns the current format type name for the body part.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPartFormatType
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMCombineFormatTypeStrings 3,
.Fn DtCMFreeFormatStrings 3,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMParseFormatTypeString 3,
.Fn DtCMSetBodyPartFormatType 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
