.TH DtCMGetBodyPart 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMGetBodyPart \- retrieve a body part with a persistent body-part reference
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtCMBodyPart *DtCMGetBodyPart('u
DtCMBodyPart *DtCMGetBodyPart(DtCMDocument \f2document\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	CMReference \f2reference\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart
function returns a body part from a persistent reference.
The
.I reference
argument must be from the current
.I document
argument or an error occurs.
An error occurs if the body part has been deleted.
.P
The
.I document
argument is a document handle created by the
.Fn DtCMInitDocument 3
function.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
The
.I reference
argument is a persistent reference for the body part.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart
function returns a pointer to a
.BR DtCMBodyPart
structure or
.Cn NULL
if no body parts exist.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
