.TH DtCMNewBodyPart 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMNewBodyPart \- create a new body part with a persistent reference
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtCMBodyPart *DtCMNewBodyPart('u
DtCMBodyPart *DtCMNewBodyPart(DtCMDocument \f2document\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart
function creates a new Cde container document body part.
The body part is
created at the end of the document, but can be moved to a new
location with the
.Fn DtCMInsertBodyPart 3
function.
The body part is created with default attributes and format types.
.P
The
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart
function returns a pointer to a
.BR DtCMBodyPart
structure.
The
.I object
member is an object that can be used to access the body
part until the container is closed.
The
.I reference
member is a persistent object reference relative to
the container for the body part.
.P
The
.I document
argument is a document handle created by the
.Fn DtCMInitDocument 3
function.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart
function returns a pointer to a
.BR DtCMBodyPart
structure.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application can save the
.I reference
value and use it to access the object again with the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMDeleteBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMReleaseBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
