.TH DtCMInsertBodyPart 3 "17 January 1994"
...\" **(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **     a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMInsertBodyPart \- move a body part to a different location in the document
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMInsertBodyPart('u
void DtCMInsertBodyPart(DtCMDocument \f2doc\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	DtCMBodyPart *\f2after_part\fP
	DtCMBodyPart *\f2new_part\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMInsertBodyPart
function changes the traversal order of a body part.
Future traversals will return the body part specified by the
.I body_part
argument immediately after the body part specified by the
.I after_part
argument.
If the
.I body_part
argument is to be the first body part in the traversal, then
the application should pass
.Cn NULL
for the
.I after_part
argument.
.P
The
.I body_part
argument is a body-part structure returned by any of the
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
or
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3
functions.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMInsertBodyPart
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMInsertBodyPart
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMGetBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMGetNextBodyPart 3,
.Fn DtCMNewBodyPart 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
