.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmUpdateEntries 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmUpdateEntries(3X) \- Update entries in the calendar.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmUpdateEntries (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmEntry *	\fIentries\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_entries\fP,
.br
        DtCmAttributes *	\fIattrs\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_attrs\fP,
.br
        DtCmEditScope		\fIscope\fP,
.br
        DtCmEntry **		\fInew_entries_r\fP,
.br
        DtCmStatus **		\fIstatus_r\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmUpdateEntries\fP updates the list of entries specified in entries in 
the associated calendar.  The new attribute values are specified by 
\fIattrs\fP which is a pointer to an array of \fBDtCmAttribute\fP 
structures with \fInum_attrs\fP elements. All entries will be updated 
using the attribute values in \fIattrs\fP. \fIScope\fP specifies the 
scope of a repeating entry to be affected by the update operation. It 
is applied to all the repeating entries and one time entries are not 
affected. Scope specifies one of \fBDT_CM_SCOPE_ALL, DT_CM_SCOPE_ONE\fP, and 
\fBDT_CM_SCOPE_FORWARD\fP. An array of handles to the updated entries is 
returned in \fInew_entries_r\fP. Each element in the array contains the 
handle to the new entry resulted from updating the corresponding entry 
in \fIentries\fP. If all entries are not updated successfully, 
\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP will be returned by the function. And if 
\fIstatus_r\fP is not \fBNULL\fP, an array of \fBDtCmStatus\fP with 
\fInum_entries\fP elements will be returned in it.  Each element in 
the returned \fBDtCmStatus\fP array indicates whether the corresponding 
entry in \fIentries\fP is updated successfully or an error occurred. 
In the latter case, the corresponding element in the array returned in 
\fInew_entries_r\fP will be \fBNULL\fP. The caller is responsible for 
freeing the returned array in \fInew_entries_r\fP and \fIstatus_r\fP by 
calling \fBDtCmFreeEntries\fP and \fBfree\fP, respectively.
 
All the entries specified in entries should belong to the same calendar. 
Since CM servers of version 2 to 4 support a fixed set of attributes, 
the function fails if attributes not supported by the server are 
specified. For CM servers of version 5 and beyond, new attributes can 
be added using this function and existing attributes can be deleted by 
setting the value part of the \fBDtCmAttribute\fP structure to \fBNULL\fP. 
If a read only attribute is specified, the function returns an error. If 
the function returns an error, none of the specified attributes will 
be updated.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIentries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the list of entries to update.
.IP "\fInum_entries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in \fIentries\fP.
.IP "\fIattrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the new attribute values.
.IP "\fInum_attrs\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in \fIattrs\fP.
.IP "\fIscope\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the scope of repeating entries to be affected by the update.
.IP "\fInew_entries_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns an array of handles to the updated entries.
.IP "\fIstatus_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns an array of status values.
.sp .5
.PP
Only users with update permission or the author of an entry can change the entry.
.sp
The set of attributes that are supported by all servers is:
.sp
The set of read-only attributes is:
.sp
If an application wishes to create new attribute anmes, the conventions they should follow are:

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed successfully. If \fBDT_CM_OK\fP or \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP 
is returned, an array of handles to the new entries is returned in 
\fIentries_r\fP. If the function returns \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP and 
\fIstatus_r\fP is not \fBNULL\fP, an array of status values for the 
corresponding entries will be returned in \fIstatus_r\fP.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
One of the following status values may be returned:
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have insert access on the calendar.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP" 2.5i
Only some entries are inserted successfully.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
One of the following status values may be stored in the array returned 
in \fIstatus_r\fP.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_DATA_TYPE\fP" 2.5i
Invalid data type specified for predefined attributes.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED\fP" 2.5i
Attributes not supported by the server are specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_READONLY\fP" 2.5i
Read-only attribute specified.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
NEED MARKUP HERE, SIMILAR TO SYNOPSIS
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmFreeEntries (3X)
.BR DtCmInsertEntry (3X)
.BR DtCmInsertEntries (3X)
.BR DtCmUpdateEntry (3X)
