.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI;
.TH DtCmDeleteEntries 3X "26 January 1994"
.BH "26 January -_1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtCmDeleteEntries(3X) \- Delete entries from the calendar.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&#include <Dt/DtCm.h>
.sp .5
DtCmStatus DtCmDeleteEntries (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
        DtCmEntry *\fIentries\fP,
.br
        int		\fInum_entries\fP,
.br
        DtCmEditScope	\fIscope\fP,
.br
        DtCmStatus **\fIstatus_r\fP);
.fi
\fP
.SH
\fBDtCmDeleteEntries\fP deletes the list of entries specified in \fIentries\fP 
from the associated calendar. \fIScope\fP specifies the scope of
repeating entries to be affected by the delete operation. It is applied 
to all the repeating entries and one time entries are not affected. \fIScope\fP 
specifies one of \fBDT_CM_SCOPE_ALL, DT_CM_SCOPE_ONE\fP, and 
\fBDT_CM_SCOPE_FORWARD\fP. If all entries are not deleted successfully, 
\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP will be returned.  If \fIstatus_r\fP is not 
\fBNULL\fP, an array of \fBDtCmStatus\fP with \fInum_entries\fP elements 
will be returned in it. Each element in the returned \fBDtCmStatus\fP 
array indicates whether the corresponding entry in \fIentries\fP is 
deleted successfully or an error occurred. The caller is responsible 
for freeing the returned array of status values by using free.
 
All the entries specified in entries should belong to the same calendar.

.sp .5
.IP "\fIentries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the list of entries to delete.
.IP "\fInum_entries\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in entries.
.IP "\fIscope\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the scope of repeating entries to be affected by the operation.
.IP "\fIstatus_r\fP" 1.25i
Returns an array of status values.
.sp .5
.PP

Only users with update permission or the author of an entry can delete the entry.

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The function returns a status indicating whether the function is 
completed successfully. If the function returns \fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP 
and \fIstatus_r\fP is not \fBNULL\fP, an array of status values will be 
returned in \fIstatus_r\fP. The array holds the result of deleting 
each entry in the corresponding element in \fIentries\fP.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.SH
One of the following status values may be returned.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have permission to delete the entry.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARAMETER\fP" 2.5i
Invalid parameter.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_PARTIAL\fP" 2.5i
Only some entries are deleted successfully.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SERVER\fP" 2.5i
Server problem.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
One of the following status values may be returned in the array pointed to by 
\fIstatus_r\fP.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_AUTH\fP" 2.5i
The client does not have permission to delete the entry.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_MEMORY\fP" 2.5i
Not enough memory.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_NOT_EXIST\fP" 2.5i
The entry does not exist.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_OBJECT\fP" 2.5i
Bad object or wrong object type.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_ERR_SPACE\fP" 2.5i
Not enough space left on the device.
.IP "\fBDT_CM_OK\fP" 2.5i
The call is completed successfully.
.PP
.sp
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example deletes an array of entries with 5 elements, and
if it is a repeating entry, delete the whole sequence:

DtCmStatus stat;
.br
DtCmEntry *entries;
.br
int size = 5;

stat = DtCmDeleteEntries(entries, size, DT_CM_SCOPE_ALL, NULL);

The following example deletes an array of entries and expects to
get back an array of status value if all entries are not deleted successfully.
If it is a repeating entry, delete the instance specified and those happen
after it in the sequence:

DtCmStatus stat;
.br
DtCmEntry *entries;
.br
int size;
.br
DtCmStatus *stat_array;

stat = DtCmDeleteEntries(entries, size, DT_CM_SCOPE_FORWARD, &stat_array);

.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCmOpenCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmCloseCalendar (3X),
.BR DtCmInsertEntry (3X),
.BR DtCmInsertEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmUpdateEntry (3X),
.BR DtCmUpdateEntries (3X),
.BR DtCmDeleteEntry (3X),
.BR DtCmEnumerateSequence (3X)
