.TH DtCMMemoryInfo 3 "17 January 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
DtCMMemoryInfo \- retrieve buffer information
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
#include <Bento/DtCM.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtCMMemoryInfo('u
void DtCMMemoryInfo(CMRefCon \f2ref_con\fP,
	CMEnv *\f2error\fP,
	const CMPtr *\f2buffer\fP,
	CMSize *\f2buffer_size\fP);
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.Fn DtCMMemoryInfo
function returns the buffer and its size to the caller.
The application must close the container before calling this function.
The application must not
modify or free the buffer returned by
.Fn DtCMMemoryInfo .
.P
The
.I ref_con
argument is a reference constant from the
.Fn DtCMMemoryCreate 3
function.
The
.I error
argument is a pointer to an error return structure.
.P
The
.I buffer
argument is a pointer to a
.B CMPtr
that contains the buffer used to store the
container.
The
.I buffer_size
argument is a pointer to
.BR CMSize
that contains the buffer size in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtCMMemoryInfo
function returns no value.
If an error occurs,
.Fn DtCMMemoryInfo
sets the major code in the
.I error
structure to
.Cn USER_EXCEPTION ,
and the application can use the
.Fn CMRexception_number
function to determine the minor code.
See the Error API Appendix in the \*(ZB.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the application wants to keep a copy of the container,
it must copy the container to another location.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCMMemoryCreate 3,
.Fn DtCMMemoryDestroy 3,
.Hd Bento/DtCM.h 5;
.Fn CMRexception_number
in the \*(ZB.
