.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Interleaf, Inc.
.\" **
.\" ** Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" ** documentation for any purpose without fee is granted, provided that
.\" ** the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both copyright
.\" ** notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
.\" ** and that the name of Interleaf not be used in advertising or publicly
.\" ** pertaining to distribution of the software without specific written
.\" ** prior permission.
.\" ** 
.\" ** Interleaf makes no representation about the suitability of this
.\" ** software for any purpose. It is provided "AS IS" without any express
.\" ** or implied warranty.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH DtComboBoxSetItem 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBDtComboBoxSetItem \- set an item in the DtComboBox list.\fP
.iX "DtComboBoxSetItem"
.iX "DtComboBox functions" "DtComboBoxSetItem"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/ComboBox.h>
.sp .5
void DtComboBoxSetItem (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIw\fP,
.br
	XmString	\fIitem\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtComboBoxSetItem\fP selects and item in the XmList of the given DtComboBox
widget and makes it the first visible item in the list.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIw\fP" .75i
Specifies the DtComboBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIitem\fP" .75i
Specifies the XmString for the item in the DtComboBox to set.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of DtComboBox and its associated resources, see
\fBDtComboBox(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtComboBox(3X)\fP,
\fBDtComboBoxAddItem(3X)\fP,
\fBDtComboBoxDeletePos(3X)\fP, and
\fBDtComboBoxSelectItem(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
