.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Interleaf, Inc.
.\" **
.\" ** Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" ** documentation for any purpose without fee is granted, provided that
.\" ** the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both copyright
.\" ** notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
.\" ** and that the name of Interleaf not be used in advertising or publicly
.\" ** pertaining to distribution of the software without specific written
.\" ** prior permission.
.\" ** 
.\" ** Interleaf makes no representation about the suitability of this
.\" ** software for any purpose. It is provided "AS IS" without any express
.\" ** or implied warranty.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH DtCreateComboBox 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBDtCreateComboBox \- the ComboBox widget creation function.\fP
.iX "DtCreateComboBox"
.iX "creation functions" "DtCreateComboBox"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/ComboBox.h>
.sp .5
Widget DtCreateComboBox (
.br
.ta 0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP,
.br
	String	\fIname\fP,
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP,
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtCreateComboBox\fP creates an instance of a ComboBox 
widget and returns the associated widget ID.  
.sp .5
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of ComboBox and its associated resources, see
\fBDtComboBox(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the ComboBox widget ID.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtComboBox(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
