.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Interleaf, Inc.
.\" **
.\" ** Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" ** documentation for any purpose without fee is granted, provided that
.\" ** the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both copyright
.\" ** notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
.\" ** and that the name of Interleaf not be used in advertising or publicly
.\" ** pertaining to distribution of the software without specific written
.\" ** prior permission.
.\" ** 
.\" ** Interleaf makes no representation about the suitability of this
.\" ** software for any purpose. It is provided "AS IS" without any express
.\" ** or implied warranty.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH DtComboBox 3X ""
.BH "20 January - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtComboBox(3X) \- the ComboBox widget class.\fP
.iX "DtComboBox"
.iX "widget class" "ComboBox"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <Dt/ComboBox.h>\fP
.sp .5
.SH DESCRIPTION
The DtComboBox widget is a combination of a TextField and a List widget
that provides a list of valid choices for the TextField.
Selecting an item from this list automatically fills in the TextField 
with that list item.
This widget was written by Interleaf, Inc.
.PP
Widget subclassing is not supported for the DtComboBox widget class.
.PP
The resources for the XmList and XmTextField that are created by the
DtComboBox are accessible by using the XtNameToWidget() function.
The names of these widgets are "*List" and "Text" respectively.
.sp .5
.SS "Classes"
DtComboBox inherits behavior and resources from \fBCore\fP, \fBComposite\fP,
and \fBXmManager\fP classes.
.PP
The class pointer is dtComboBoxWidgetClass.
.PP
The class name is DtComboBoxWidget.
.sp .5
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBDtN\fP or
\fBDtC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBDt\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (\fBC\fP),
set by using \fBXtSetValues\fP (\fBS\fP),
retrieved by using \fBXtGetValues\fP (\fBG\fP), or is not applicable (\fBN/A\fP).
.sp .5
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
DtComboBox Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
DtNmarginHeight	DtCMarginHeight	Dimension	2	CSG
DtNmarginWidth	DtCMarginWidth	Dimension	2	CSG
DtNselectedItem	DtCSelectedItem	XmString	dynamic	CSG
DtNselectedPosition	DtCSelectedPosition	int	dynamic	CSG
DtNselectionCallback	DtCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
DtNcomboBoxType	DtCComboBoxType	unsigned int	DtDROP_DOWN_LIST	C
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp .5
.IP "\fBDtNmarginHeight\fP"
\fIDtNmarginHeight\fP specifies the number of pixels added between the top and
bottom of the text widget and the start of the shadow.
.IP "\fBDtNmarginWidth\fP"
\fIDtNmarginWidth\fP specifies the number of pixels added between the right and
left sides of the text widget and the start of the shadow.
.IP "\fBDtNselectedItem\fP"
This resource is passed through to the XmList to set the
\fIXmNselectedItemCount\fP and \fIXmNselectedItems\fP as the single item
in the XmNitems that matches this specified XmString in the List.
Setting both \fIDtNselectedItem\fP and \fIDtNselectedPosition\fP in the
same ArgList has undefined behavior.
.IP "\fBDtNselectedPosition\fP"
This resource is passed through to the XmList to set the
\fIXmNselectedItemCount\fP and \fIXmNselectedItems\fP as the single item
at this specified position in the List.
Setting both \fIDtNselectedItem\fP and \fIDtNselectedPosition\fP in the
same ArgList has undefined behavior.
.IP "\fBDtNselectionCallback\fP"
This callback list is issued when an item is selected from the DtComboBox
widget's List.
The call_data structure contains a DtComboBoxCallbackStruct with the
reason DtCR_SELECT. 
This structure is defined below.
.IP "\fBDtNcomboBoxType\fP"
This resource determines the style of the DtComboBox.
There are two choices:
.wH
.rS
.TP
\(bu
\fIDtDROP_DOWN_COMBO_BOX\fP
.TP
\(bu
\fIDtDROP_DOWN_LIST\fP
.wH
.rE
.nL
.IP
The DtDROP_DOWN_COMBO_BOX style type provides an editable text area, and the 
DtDROP_DOWN_LIST provides a static text area.
.sp .5
.SS "Inherited Resources"
DtComboBox inherits behavior and resources from the following named
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmManager Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialFocus	XmCInitialFocus	Widget	NULL	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	dynamic	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNstringDirection	XmCStringDirection	XmStringDirection	dynamic	CG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	dynamic	CSG
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Composite Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	default procedure	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P
.wH
.in 0
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in
.sp .5
.SS "Callback Information"
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each DtComboBox callback:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i
\fBtypedef struct \fP{
	\fBint\fP 	\fIreason\fP;
	\fBXEvent\fP	\fI* event\fP;
	\fBXmString\fP	\fIitem_or_text\fP;
	\fBint\fP	\fIitem_position\fP;
} \fBDtComboBoxCallbackStruct\fP;
.fi
.sp .5
.IP "\fIreason\fP"
There is only one possible reason for this callback to be issued, DtCR_SELECT.
.IP "\fIevent\fP"
A pointer to the event that caused this callback to be invoked. It can 
be NULL.
.IP "\fIitem_or_text\fP"
The contents of the Text widget at the time the event caused the 
callback to be invoked.
This data is only valid within the scope of the call_data structure,
so it must be copied when it is used outside of this scope.
.IP "\fIitem_position\fP"
The new value of the \fIDtNposition\fP resource in the DtComboBox's List.
If this is 0, it means the user entered a value in the XmTextField widget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR Composite(3X),
.BR Constraint(3X),
.BR Core(3X),
.BR DtComboBoxAddItem(3X),
.BR DtComboBoxDeletePos(3X),
.BR DtComboBoxSelectItem(3X),
.BR DtComboBoxSetItem(3X),
.BR DtCreateComboBox(3X),
.BR XmList(3X),
.BR XmManager(3X),
.BR XmText(3X), and
.BR XmTextField(3X).
