.TH DtCreateTerm 3 "25 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtCreateTerm \- create a DtTerm widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Term.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Widget DtCreateTerm('u
Widget DtCreateTerm(Widget \f2parent\fP,
	String \f2name\fP,
	ArgList \f2arglist\fP,
	Cardinal \f2argcount\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtCreateTerm
function creates a terminal emulator widget hierarchy.
.P
The
.I parent
argument specifies the parent widget ID.
.P
The
.I name
argument specifies the name of the created widget.
.P
The
.I arglist
argument specifies the argument list.
.P
The
.I argcount
argument specifies the number of attribute and value
pairs in the argument list
(\f2arglist\fP).
.cdes
.P
The DtTerm widget provides the core set of functionality needed to
emulate an \f3ANSI X3.64-1979\fP- and \f3ISO 6429:1992(E)\fP-style terminal,
such as the DEC VT220.
This functionality includes text rendering, scrolling, margin and tab support,
escape sequence parsing and the low-level OS-specific interface required to
allocate and configure a
.B pty
or STREAMS pseudo-terminal device and write the system's
.B utmp
device.
.cdee
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtCreateTerm
function returns the DtTerm widget ID.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtterm 1,
.cde .BR dtterm (5),
.cde .BR pty (7),
.xo .cX dtterm.5 ;
.Hd Dt/Term.h 5,
.xo .IR DtTerm ,
.cde .IR DtTerm (3),
.Fn DtTermInitialize 3,
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend 3,
.Fn DtTermSubprocSend 3,
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap 3.
