...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtDbLoad 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtDbReloadNotify(3) \(em  the API for reloading the Dt actions and data typing
services database.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void DtDbReloadNotify(
.ta .5i 3.0i
.nf
	DtDbReloadCallbackProc	\fIcallback_proc\fP,
	XtPointer	\fIclient_data\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
If you have a long-lived application, then your application
must be prepared to dynamically reload the Dt actions and data typing services
databases when they are modified.  To do this, your client must register to
receive notification whenever the Action/Datatypes database is reloaded. This
is done with a call to \fBDtDbReloadNotify()\fP.  You must supply a callback
function, \fIcallback_proc\fP that cleans up any cached database information
your application is holding and then invoke \fIDtDbLoad()\fP.  
\fIClient_data\fP may be used to pass additional client information to the
callback routine.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBDtDbReloadNotify()\fP does not have a meaningful return values.  
.SH ERRORS
If errors are encountered reading the database files, error messages will be
written to the users' errorlog file ($HOME/.dt/errorlog). Records containing
errors will not be incorporated into the internal database.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtDbLoad(1),
.BR  DtActionIcon(3),
.BR  DtActionLabel(3),
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR  dtactionfile(4),
.BR  dtdtsfile(4)

