...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtDbLoad 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtDbLoad(3) \(em  the API for loading the Dt actions and data typing
services database.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void DtDbLoad (\fIvoid\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBDtDbLoad()\fP reads in the action (\fIDtAction\fP) and data typing services
(\fIDtDts\fB) databases.  This function will determine the set of directories
which are to be searched for database files and load the "*.dt" files found
into the database.
.PP
The directory search path is based on the value of the
\fBDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP environment variable and internal defaults. 
\fBDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP contains a comma-separated list of directories
in \fI[host:]/path\fP format. \fBDtDbLoad()\fP must be called before calling
any of the routines which query either the action or datatype databases. 
If called multiple times, the old databases will first be
freed, before the new ones are created.
.PP
If you use this function in a long-lived application, then your application
must be prepared to dynamically reload the databases when they are modified.
To do this, your client must register to receive notification whenever the
Action/Datatypes database is reloaded. This is done with a call to
\fBDtDbReloadNotify(3)\fP.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
\fBDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP is expected to contain a comma-separated list of
directories which are to be searched for files ending in \fI*.dt\fP.
Such files are recognized as action/data types database files.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBDtDbLoad()\fP does not have a meaningful return value.  
.SH ERRORS
If errors are encountered reading the database files, error messages will be
written to the users' errorlog file ($HOME/.dt/errorlog). Records containing
errors will not be incorporated into the internal database.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  DtDbReloadNotify(1),
.BR  DtActionIcon(3),
.BR  DtActionLabel(3),
.BR  DtActionDescription(3),
.BR  DtActionExists(3),
.BR  DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR  dtdtfile(4),
.BR  dtactionfile(4),
.BR  dtdtsfile(4)
