.TH DtDbReloadNotify 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtDbReloadNotify \- reload the Dt actions and data typing services database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtDbReloadNotify('u
void DtDbReloadNotify(DtDbReloadCallbackProc \f2callback_proc\fP,
	XtPointer \f2client_data\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDbReloadNotify
function registers an application callback function that is called
whenever the actions and data types database needs to be reloaded;
the conditions that trigger this callback are implementation-dependent.
The
.I callback_proc
must flush any actions and data type information that the
application has cached and then call
.Fn DtDbLoad 3
to reload the database.
The
.I client_data
argument passes additional application information
to the callback routine.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtDbReloadNotify
function returns no value.
.P
If errors are encountered when reading the database files, error messages are
written to the user's errorlog file (\f3$HOME/.dt/errorlog\fP).
Records containing errors are not incorporated into the internal database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.Fn DtDbLoad 3,
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4),
.cde .BR dtdtfile (4).
.xo .cX dtactionfile ,
.xo .cX dtdtfile .
