.TH DtDbLoad 3 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtDbLoad \- load actions and data types database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Action.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtDbLoad('u
void DtDbLoad(void);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDbLoad
function loads the actions and data types database
into the application.
When the function returns, the database has been loaded.
.xos
See
.cX dtdtfile
for the general syntax and location of the actions
and data types database.)
.xoe
.P
.cdes
An environment variable determines the set of directories to be searched.
The
.Fn DtDbLoad
function loads all actions and data types
defined in files with a
.B \&.dt
suffix located in these directories.
.P
The directory search path is based on the value of the
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
environment variable and internal defaults.
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
contains a comma-separated list of directories
in \f3[\f2host\f3:]/\f2path\f1 format.
The application must call
.Fn DtDbLoad
before calling
any of the routines that query either the action or data type databases.
If called multiple times, the old databases are freed before the new
ones are created.
.cdee
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtDbLoad
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If this function is used in a long-lived application, the application
must dynamically reload the databases when they are modified.
To do this, the client must register to receive notification whenever the
actions and data types database needs to be modified.
It is up to the application to recall
.Fn DtDbLoad
after receiving notification.
This is done with a call to
.Fn DtDbReloadNotify 3.
.P
If errors are encountered when reading the database files, error messages are
written to the user's errorlog file (\f3$HOME/.dt/errorlog\fP).
Records containing errors are not incorporated into the internal database.
.ig zz
There are no error returns available to the application
because, while errors may occur loading some of those
files, this does not necessarily mean that the application should fail.
Errors typically affect only a single record in the database.
The application can continue processing and
error messages will be emitted when the data in the database is
actually used.
.br
.zz
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Action.h 5,
.Fn DtDbReloadNotify 3,
.cde .BR dtdtfile (4).
.xo .cX dtdtfile .
