.TH DtCreateDragSourceIcon 3X "25 Jan 1994"
.BH "25 Jan - 1994"
.SH NAME
DtCreateDragSourceIcon \- create a drag source icon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <Dt/Dnd.h>
.sp .5v
Widget DtCreateDragSourceIcon(
	Widget parent,
	Pixmap pixmap,
	Pixmap mask)
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"---
.\"--- The _1st_index_term_ and _2nd_index_term_ will appear in the manual
.\"--- index.  _format_of_1st_ and _format_of_2nd_ specify formatting for
.\"--- these index entries.
.\"---
.IX "DtCreateDragSourceIcon" "_name_of_2nd_" "_format_of_1st_" "_format_of_2nd_"
.LP
This function creates a Motif drag icon named "sourceIcon" based on
the characteristics of the
.I pixmap
parameter. The resulting drag icon is suitable for use with
.I DtDndDragStart.
.SS Parameters
The parameters passed to
.I DtCreateDragSourceIcon
are used as follows.
.TP 15
.I Widget parent 
is the parent of the drag icon. Typically this widget is the drag source.
.TP 15 
.I Pixmap pixmap
is the pixmap representation of the data to be dragged.
.TP 15 
.I Pixmap mask
is the mask for the
.I pixmap.
.SS Motif Resources
When
.I DtCreateDragSourceIcon
is called, the following Motif resources are set in the drag icon. The
application should not modify the values of any of these resources.

.I XmNwidth
.br
.I XmNheight
.br
.I XmNpixmap
.br
.I XmNmask
.br
.I XmNdepth
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 15
Widget dragIcon
.I DtCreateDragSourceIcon
returns a drag icon created by calling
.I XmCreateDragIcon
with the characteristics of the
.I pixmap.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtDndDragStart (3X),
.BR XmCreateDragIcon (3X),
.BR XmDragIcon (3X),
.BR XmDragStart (3X).
.SH COPYRIGHT
.LP
(c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc.
