.TH DtDndCreateSourceIcon 3 "14 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDndCreateSourceIcon \- create a drag source icon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dnd.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Widget DtDndCreateSourceIcon('u
Widget DtDndCreateSourceIcon(Widget \f2parent\fP,
	Pixmap \f2pixmap\fP,
	Pixmap \f2mask\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDndCreateSourceIcon
function creates a Motif drag icon, named
.BR sourceIcon ,
based on the characteristics of the
.I pixmap
argument.
The resulting drag icon is suitable for use with
.Fn DtDndDragStart 3.
.P
The
.I parent
argument is the parent of the drag icon.
Typically this widget is the drag source.
.P
The
.I pixmap
argument is the pixmap representation of the data to be dragged.
.P
The
.I mask
argument is the mask for the
.IR pixmap .
.P
When it calls
.Fn XmCreateDragIcon 3X,
the
.Fn DtDndCreateSourceIcon
function sets Motif resources in the drag icon;
the application must not modify the values of any of these resources:
.Cs I
.B XmNwidth
.B XmNheight
.B XmNpixmap
.B XmNmask
.B XmNdepth
.Ce
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDndCreateSourceIcon
function returns a drag icon created by calling
.Fn XmCreateDragIcon 3X
with the characteristics of the
.IR pixmap ;
otherwise, it returns
.Cn NULL .
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dnd.h 5,
.cdes
.Fn DtDndDragStart 3,
.Fn XmCreateDragIcon 3X,
.Fn XmDragIcon 3X,
.Fn XmDragStart 3X,
.Fn XtDestroyWidget 3X.
.cdee
.xos
.Fn DtDndDragStart ;
.Fn XmCreateDragIcon ,
.Fn XmDragIcon ,
.Fn XmDragStart
in the \*(ZM;
.Fn XtDestroyWidget
in the \*(Zt.
.xoe
