.TH DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue 3 "15 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue \- get an attribute value for a specified data type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue('u
char *DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue(const char *\f2datatype\fP,
	const char *\f2attr_name\fP,
	const char *\f2opt_name\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue
returns an attribute value for the specified data type name.
.P
The
.I datatype
argument is a pointer to a data type name string.
.P
The
.I attr_name
argument is a name of the attribute.
.P
The
.I opt_name
argument can be used to specify a name to be associated with the
data type.
If the
.I opt_name
argument is not
.Cn NULL ,
it is used as a pseudo file name in typing;
otherwise, certain attributes may be returned as
.Cn NULL
because the filename components could not be determined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue
function returns a pointer to a data attribute value string, or
.Cn NULL
if no value could be determined.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use the
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3
function to release the memory for the returned value.
.P
The
.I opt_name
argument is useful when the attribute being returned
contains a modifier string that depends on having
a file name included.
For example, if the
.Cn INSTANCE_ICON
attribute had the value
.BR %name%.icon ,
.I opt_name
would be used to derive the
.B %name%
portion of the attribute value.
See
.cde .IR dtdtsfile (4).
.xo .cX datatypemodifiers .
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
The following takes a list of files as arguments
and determines the description and actions for each file:
.Cs
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
#define	ATTRIBUTE1	"DESCRIPTION"
#define	ATTRIBUTE2	"ACTIONS"
.sp 0.5v
main (int argc, char **argv)
{
	char	*attribute;
	char	*datatype;
.sp 0.5v
	/* load data types database */
	DtDtsLoadDataTypes();
.sp 0.5v
	argv++;
	while (*argv) {
		/* get data type file file */
		datatype = DtDtsFileToDataType(*argv);
.sp 0.5v
		/* get first attribute for datatype */
		attribute = DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue(datatype,
					ATTRIBUTE1, *argv);
		if (attribute)
			printf("%s for file %s is %s\en",
				ATTRIBUTE1, *argv, attribute);
.sp 0.5v
		/* get second attribute for datatype */
		attribute = DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue(datatype,
					ATTRIBUTE2, NULL);
		if (attribute)
			printf("%s for file %s is %s\en",
				ATTRIBUTE2, *argv, attribute);
		argv++;
	}
	DtDtsRelease();
	exit(0);
}
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dts.h ,
.Fn DtDtsFileToDataType 3,
.Fn DtDtsLoadDataTypes 3,
.Fn DtDtsRelease 3,
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3.
