.TH DtDtsDataToDataType 3 "15 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDtsDataToDataType \- get the data type for a set of data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtDtsDataToDataType('u
char *DtDtsDataToDataType(const char *\f2filepath\fP,
	const void *\f2buffer\fP,
	const int \f2size\fP,
	const struct stat *\f2stat_buff\fP,
	const char *\f2link_path\fP,
	const struct stat *\f2link_stat_buff\fP,
	const char *\f2opt_name\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType
function determines
the data type of a set of data,
based on the information given in the non-\c
.Cn NULL
pointer arguments to the function.
The function gathers any additional information, if it is needed,
to compensate for the
.Cn NULL
arguments.
For example, if the
.I filepath
argument is given, but the
.I stat_buff
argument is
.Cn NULL
and a
.I stat_buff
value is required to determine the data type,
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType
calls the
.Fn stat 2
function to obtain the information.
.P
The
.I filepath
argument is the pathname of a file.
.P
The
.I buffer
argument
is a pointer to the buffer of the data to be typed.
.P
The
.I size
argument
is the size of the buffer in bytes.
.P
The
.I stat_buff
argument
is the buffer returned from a
.Fn stat 2
or
.Fn fstat 3
call for use in typing.
.P
The
.I link_path
argument
is the pathname of the target file pointed to by a symbolic link.
.P
The
.I link_stat_buff
argument
is the buffer returned from an
.Fn lstat 2
call for use in typing.
.P
The
.I opt_name
argument can be used to specify a name to be associated with the buffer.
If the
.I opt_name
argument is not
.Cn NULL ,
it is used as a pseudo file name in typing;
otherwise, certain attributes may be returned as
.Cn NULL
because the filename components could not be determined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType
function returns a pointer to a data type string, or
.Cn NULL
if no value could be determined.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType
function is generally used by applications such as file managers
to improve performance.
Typical applications should probably use
.Fn DtDtsFileToDataType 3
or
.Fn DtDtsBufferToDataType 3
instead.
.P
The
.IR DtDtsBuffer *
functions assume that the buffer is readable and writable
by the user, group and other file classes
and select a type accordingly.
An application requiring a type based on read-only
permissions should use
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType
with a
.I stat_buff
value created for this purpose:
all fields should
.Cn NULL
except for the
.I st_mode
field,
which should be set to:
.Cs I
S_IFREG | S_IROTH | S_IRGRP | S_IRUSR
.Ce
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dts.h ,
.Fn DtDtsLoadDataTypes 3,
.Fn DtDtsFileToDataType 3,
.cdes
.Fn DtDtsBufferToDataType 3,
.Fn fstat 3,
.Fn lstat 2,
.Fn stat 2.
.cdee
.xos
.Fn DtDtsBufferToDataType 3;
.Fn fstat 3,
.Fn lstat 2,
.Fn stat 2
in the \*(ZK.
.xoe
