.TH DtDtsFileToAttributeValue 3 "15 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDtsFileToAttributeValue \- get a specified attribute value for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtDtsFileToAttributeValue('u
char *DtDtsFileToAttributeValue(const char *\f2filepath\fP,
	const char *\f2attr_name\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDtsFileToAttributeValue
function
returns a data attribute value for the specified file.
.P
The
.I filepath
argument is the pathname of the file.
.P
The
.I attr_name
argument is a pointer to an attribute name string.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDtsFileToAttributeValue
function returns a pointer to a data attribute value string, or
.Cn NULL
if no value could be determined.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use the
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3
function to release the memory for the returned value.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following takes a list of files as arguments
and determines the description of the data type for each file:
.Cs
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
#define	ATTRIBUTE	"DESCRIPTION"
.sp 0.5v
main (int argc, char **argv)
{
	char	*attribute;
.sp 0.5v
	/* load data types database */
	DtDtsLoadDataTypes();
.sp 0.5v
	argv++;
	while (*argv) {
		/* get attribute for file */
		attribute = DtDtsFileToAttributeValue(*argv, ATTRIBUTE);
.sp 0.5v
		if (attribute)
			printf("%s: %s\en", *argv, attribute);
		argv++;
	}
	DtDtsRelease();
	exit(0);
}
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dts.h ,
.Fn DtDtsLoadDataTypes 3,
.Fn DtDtsRelease 3,
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3.
