.TH DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue 3 "15 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue \- get a single data attribute value for a byte stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue('u
char *DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue(const void *\f2buffer\fP,
	const int \f2size\fP,
	const char *\f2attr_name\fP,
	const char *\f2opt_name\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue
function
returns a data attribute value for a given byte stream.
The
.I buffer
argument
is a pointer to the buffer of the data to be typed.
.P
The
.I size
argument
is the size of the buffer in bytes.
.P
The
.I attr_name
argument is a name of the attribute.
.P
The
.I opt_name
argument can be used to specify a name to be associated with the buffer.
If the
.I opt_name
argument is not
.Cn NULL ,
it is used as a pseudo file name in typing;
otherwise, certain attributes may be returned as
.Cn NULL
because the filename components could not be determined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue
function returns a pointer to a data attribute value string, or
.Cn NULL
if no value could be determined.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use the
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3
function to release the memory for the returned value.
.P
The
.Fn DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue
function assumes that the buffer is readable and writable
by the user, group and other file classes
and selects a type accordingly.
An application requiring a type based on read-only
permissions should use
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType .
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dts.h ,
.Fn DtDtsDataToDataType 3,
.Fn DtDtsLoadDataTypes 3,
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3.
.br
