.TH DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList 3 "15 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList \- get a list of attributes for a data type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtDtsAttribute **DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList('u
DtDtsAttribute **DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList(const char *\f2datatype\fP,
	const char *\f2opt_name\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList
function returns a list of attributes for a data type.
.P
The
.I datatype
argument is a pointer to a data type name string.
.P
The
.I opt_name
argument can be used to specify a name to be associated with the
data type.
If the
.I opt_name
argument is not
.Cn NULL ,
it is used as a pseudo file name in typing;
otherwise, certain attributes may be returned as
.Cn NULL
because the filename components could not be determined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList
function returns a
.Cn NULL -terminated
array of pointers of
.BR *DtDtsAttribute ,
or
.Cn NULL
if no value could be determined.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use the
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeList 3
function to release the memory for the returned value.
.P
The
.I opt_name
argument is useful when the attribute being returned
contains a modifier string that depends on having
a file name included.
For example, if the
.Cn INSTANCE_ICON
attribute had the value
.BR %name%.icon ,
.I opt_name
would be used to derive the
.B %name%
portion of the attribute value.
See
.cde .IR dtdtsfile (4).
.xo .cX datatypemodifiers .
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dts.h ,
.Fn DtDtsLoadDataTypes 3,
.Fn DtDtsFreeAttributeList 3.
