.TH DtDtsSetDataType 3 "15 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtDtsSetDataType \- set the data type of a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *DtDtsSetDataType('u
char *DtDtsSetDataType(const char *\f2dirpath\fP,
	const char *\f2datatype\fP,
	const int \f2override\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtDtsSetDataType
function sets the data type of a directory.
This may be accomplished by adding a file
named with a leading dot to the directory.
.P
The
.I dirpath
argument is a pathname of the directory.
.P
The
.I datatype
argument is a data type.
.P
If the value is already set,
.Fn DtDtsSetDataType
does not change the value unless the
.I override
argument is set to True.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtDtsSetDataType
function returns a pointer to a data type string, or
.Cn NULL
if it was unable to set or retrieve the data type.
.br
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Directories can have data types associated with them,
just as regular files can.
For example, a file manager may choose to
alter the appearance of the directory's icon
based on this data type or a system may
use a directory of files as an means of
supporting a complex form of data, such as
a compund document.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dts.h ,
.Fn DtDtsLoadDataTypes 3.
