...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\"--- Substitute the appropriate text for items beginning and ending with `_'
.\"--- (for example, _TITLE_ and _name_).  \-option_ items begin with
.\"--- `\-' (en-dash) and end with `_'.  Do not delete the `\-' characters.
.\"--- Be sure to use upper or lower case indicated for each item.
.\"---
.\"--- You need only use the parts of this template appropriate for your
.\"--- particular man page.  Delete the parts that aren't pertinent.
.\"---
.\"--- If your man page is copyrighted, please preserve the copyright
.\"--- notice.
.\"---
.\"--- For CDE: The following sections are mandatory: Page Heading, NAME
.\"--- CONFIGURATION (section 7 only), SYNOPSIS, PROTOCOL (section 3R only),
.\"--- DESCRIPTION, IOCTLS (section 7 only), OPTIONS, RETURN VALUES,
.\"--- ENVIRONMENT (if applicable), FILES, SEE ALSO
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- The following line is an instruction which insures that any
.\"--- preprocessors applied to the man page will be invoked in the proper
.\"--- order.  `t' refers to tbl, `e' refers to eqn and `p' refers to pic.
.\"--- Only include those necessary for your particular man page.
.\"--- IF THERE AE NONE DELETE THIS LINE!
.\"---
'\" tep
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- THIS IS NOT NECESSARY FOR CDE:
.\"--- The next line is the SCCS ID line, which must appear in any file
.\"--- under the control of SCCS.  It contains extraneous zero-width characters
.\"--- `\&' to prevent SCCS from interpreting it as the SCCS line for this
.\"--- template file.  Executing this template will produce a version of the
.\"--- template with these characters removed, thereby generating a valid
.\"--- SCCS line ID for your man page.
.\"---
.\"--- _source_ is where the page comes from, for example, "UCB 4.3 BSD"
.\"--- or "S5r3".  For Sun-originated pages, the "from" information may
.\"--- omitted.
.\"---
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI; from _source_
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- PAGE HEADING
.\"--- This section provides information for the header and footer of the man
.\"--- page.  _title_ the name of the man page.  This should correspond to the
.\"--- first word in the NAME line.  _#S_ specifies the manual section in 
.\"--- which the page will appear, where # is the number of the section and 
.\"--- S (if needed) is the letter of the subsection (S should be captalized).
.\"--- The _Month_ should be abbreviated (Sep.\"--- Oct).
.\"--- Include the last changed date in both _TH_ and _BH_.
.\"--- 
.\"---
.TH DtDtsFreeAttributeValue 3 "15 Dec. 1993"
.BH "15 Dec. -1993"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- NAME
.\"--- This section is used by cross-referencing programs.  Hence, do not
.\"--- use any font changes or troff escape sequences in this section.
.\"--- The _summary-line_ is brief, all on one line.
.\"---
.SH NAME
DtDtsFreeAttributeValue \- free data attribute value.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"---
.\"--- Use the following lines for pages in manual Sections 2, 3, 5 and 7: 
.\"---
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <Dt/Dts.h>
.sp .5v
.B


void		DtDtsFreeAttributeValue(char *attr_value);

Where:

attr_value	a value of an attribute.

.ft 1
.fi
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does.  Do not discuss options or cite examples.
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"---
.\"--- The _1st_index_term_ and _2nd_index_term_ will appear in the manual
.\"--- index.  _format_of_1st_ and _format_of_2nd_ specify formatting for
.\"--- these index entries.
.\"---
.IX "_1st_index_term_" "_2nd_index_term_" "_format_of_1st_" "_format_of_2nd_"
.LP

DtDtsFreeAttributeValue Frees the memory of an attribute value.

.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an _introduction_.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Simple-FileTyping
.LP
This example takes a list of files as arguments and determines the Description
of that datatype.
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf

#include <Dt/Dts.h>

#define	ATTRIBUTE	"DESCRIPTION"

main(int argc, char **argv)
{
	char	*attribute;

	/* load datatypes database */
	DtDtsLoadDataTypes();

	argv++;
	while(*argv) {
		/* get attribute for file */
		attribute = DtDtsFileToAttributeValue(*argv, ATTRIBUTE);

		if(attribute) {
			printf("%s: %s\n", *argv, attribute);
		}
		argv++;
	}
	DtDtsRelease();
	exit(0);
}

.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.SS Simple-DataTyping
.LP
This example takes a list of files as arguments and determines the Description
and Actions of for that file.
.LP
.RS
.ft 3
.nf

#include <Dt/Dts.h>

#define	ATTRIBUTE1	"DESCRIPTION"
#define	ATTRIBUTE2	"ACTIONS"

main(int argc, char **argv)
{
	char	*attribute;
	char	*datatype;

	/* load datatypes database */
	DtDtsLoadDataTypes();

	argv++;
	while(*argv) {
		/* get datatype file file */
		datatype = DtDtsFileToDataType(*argv);

		/* get first attribute for datatype */
		attribute = DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue(datatype,
					ATTRIBUTE1, *argv);
		if(attribute) {
			printf("%s for file %s is %s\n",
				ATTRIBUTE1, *argv, attribute);
		}

		/* get second attribute for datatype */
		attribute = DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue(datatype,
					ATTRIBUTE2, NULL);
		if(attribute) {
			printf("%s for file %s is %s\n",
				ATTRIBUTE2, *argv, attribute);
		}
		argv++;
	}
	DtDtsRelease();
	exit(0);
}

.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, in-house
.\"--- documents and other publications.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtDtsLoadDataTypes (3),
.BR DtDtsDataToDataType (3),
.BR DtDtsFileToDataType (3),
.BR DtDtsFileToAttributeList (3),
.BR DtDtsFileToAttributeValue  (3),
.BR DtDtsBufferToDataType (3),
.BR DtDtsBufferToAttributeList (3),
.BR DtDtsBufferToAttributeValue (3),
.BR DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeList (3),
.BR DtDtsDataTypeToAttributeValue (3),
.BR DtDtsFreeDataType (3),
.BR DtDtsFreeAttributeList (3),
.BR DtDtsFreeAttributeValue (3),
.BR DtDtsRelease (3),
.BR DtDtsDataTypeNames (3),
.BR DtDtsFindAttribute (3),
.BR DtDtsFreeDataTypeNames (3),
.BR DtDtsSetDataType (3),
.BR DtDtsDataTypeIsAction (3),
.BR DtActionLabel (3),
.BR DtActionDescription (3),
.BR DtActionExists (3),
.BR DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR dtdtfile (3),
.BR DtDndDropRegister (3),
.BR dtcreateaction (1),
.BR dttypes (1),
.\"---
.\"--- >>DO NOT USE TZ MACRO FOR CDE MAN PAGES<< Use _TZ-macro-abbreviations_ 
.\"--- to list in-house documents
.\"--- (for example, "SUNDIAG" for "Sundiag User's Guide").
.\"--- Refer to /usr/doctools/tmac/tz.map or the Man Page Spec. Appendix B
.\"--- for a list of available arguments.
.\"---
.\".LP
.\".TZ _TZ-macro-abbreviation_
.\".LP
.\"---
.\"--- Use this format for listing publications:
.\"---
.\"_Author_,
.\".I "_Outside-Doc-Title_,"
.\"_Year-by-Holder_, _Publisher_.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------

