.TH DtEditorFind 3 "2 August 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorFind \- search for the next occurrence of a string in a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtEditorFind('u
Boolean DtEditorFind(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2find\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorFind
function searches for the next occurrence (relative to the
insertion cursor) of a string.
The string is either
the last find string value specified in the
Find/Change dialog (see
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog 3)
or is passed in as an argument.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I find
argument specifies the string to search for.
If
.I find
is
.Cn NULL ,
.Fn DtEditorFind
uses the last string specified in the Find field of the
Find/Change dialog.
If the string is not found by the time the end of the document is reached,
the search continues at the beginning of the document,
stopping at the character before the insertion cursor.
.br
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorFind
function returns
True
if the search string was found;
otherwise, it returns
False.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorChange 3,
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog 3.
