.TH DtEditorGetLastPosition 3 "3 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorGetLastPosition \- retrieve the position of the last character in a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'XmTextPosition DtEditorGetLastPosition('u
XmTextPosition DtEditorGetLastPosition(Widget \f2widget\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorGetLastPosition
function accesses the last text position in the DtEditor widget.
The position is an
integer number of characters from the beginning of the widget's buffer.
Any text added to the end of the buffer is added after this position.
The first character position is zero.
The last character
position is equal to the number of characters contained in the widget.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorGetLastPosition
function returns an
.B XmTextPosition
value that indicates the last
position in the text; otherwise, it returns
.Cn NULL .
.br
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The position information is given in terms of characters,
which may differ from the byte position when multi-byte
code sets are in use.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetInsertionPosition 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetInsertionPosition 3.
