.TH DtEditorGoToLine 3 "3 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" ***********************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorGoToLine \- move the insert cursor for a DtEditor widget to a specified line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtEditorGoToLine('u
void DtEditorGoToLine(Widget \f2widget\fP
	int \f2lineNumber\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorGoToLine
function moves the insert cursor for the DtEditor widget to the beginning of the
line specified by the
.I lineNumber
argument.
The cursor can be moved to the last
line by specifying
.Cn DtEDITOR_LAST_LINE
as the line number.
If the line is not currently on-screen, the contents for the DtEditor widget
are scrolled to display the new insertion position.
.P
The
.I lineNumber
argument is the number of the line in the file,
counting from 1.
If the
.I lineNumber
argument is less than 1, the insert cursor is placed
at the beginning of the first line.
If the argument is greater than the total
number of lines, the cursor is placed at the last line of text.
.P
The insert cursor can be moved to a specific character position with
.Fn DtEditorSetInsertionPosition 3.
The
.B DtNtopCharacter
resource can be used to control which line is displayed at the top of the
DtEditor widget.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I lineNumber
argument specifies the line number within the DtEditor widget.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtEditorGoToLine
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetInsertionPosition 3.
