.TH DtEditorUndoEdit 3 "3 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorUndoEdit \- undo the last edit made to the text in a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtEditorUndoEdit('u
Boolean DtEditorUndoEdit(Widget \f2widget\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorUndoEdit
function undoes the last change (deletion or insertion) made
to the text in a DtEditor widget.
A change consists of either a set of
consecutive insertions, or a set of consecutive deletions followed by up
to one set of consecutive insertions.
An insertion is consecutive if there have been no intervening deletions,
and it is continuing forward from the same point.
A deletion is consecutive if there have been no intervening insertions,
and its start or end position is coincidental with the last deletion
(that is, the deletion is continuing from the same point, either forward or
backward).
Undoing an edit once restores the original text.
Undoing an edit twice restores the last change.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorUndoEdit
function returns
True;
otherwise, if there is no pending undo it returns
False.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3.
