.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorInsert 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorInsert(3) \- Inserts data to an Editor widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorInsert"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorInsert"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorInsert (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget \fIwidget\fP,
.br
	DtEditorContentRec *\fIdata\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorInsert\fP inserts data defined by the content record at the
current insert cursor position for the Editor, \fIwidget\fP.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.IP "\fIdata\fP" 1.00i
Pointer to a data structure containing the data to insert.
.sp .5
.PP
This function transfers content data between the application and the
Editor widget using a \fBDtEditorContentRec\fP.  
This structure indicates the 
type of data to be transfered along with the actual data.
.sp .5
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 1.5i 2.0i
\fBtypedef struct DtEditorContentRec\fP {
	\fBDtEditorFormat\fP \fItype\fP;
	union {
		\fBchar\fP	*\fIstring\fP;
		\fBwchar_t\fP	*\fIwchar\fP;
	} value;
} \fBDtEditorContentRec\fP\fP;
.sp .5
.IP "\fItype\fP"
Indicates the type of data being passed to the widget.  There are two
possible types.
.wH
.rS
.TP
\(bu
DtEDITOR_TEXT - \fIvalue\fP points to a NULL terminated string of 
characters (a char *)
.TP
\(bu
DtEDITOR_WCHAR - \fIvalue\fP is a \fBwchar_t*\fP value.
.fi
.sp .5
.IP "\fIvalue\fP"
The value to be inserted to \fIwidget\fP.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
When the data is placed sucessfully into the widget,
\fBDtEditorInsert\fP returns \fBDtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS\fP.
If \fItype\fP is unrecognized, \fBDtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE\fP is returned.
.sp .5
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
The following code segment sets the contents of an Editor to "The quick
brown fox".
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 
	Widget			editor;
	DtEditorContentRec	cr;
	DtEditorErrorCode	status;
	char * 			sampleString1="The brown fox",
	char * 			sampleString2="quick";

	cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
	cr.data.string = sampleString1;
	status = DtEditorSetContents ( editor, &cr );
	if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
	{
	  printf("Unable to set contents of the widget\\n");
	}
	else
	{
	  /*
	   * Assumes the insert cursor is between the between the words 
	   * "The" and "quick".
	   */
	  cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
	  cr.data.string = sampleString2;
	  status = DtEditorInsert ( editor, &cr );
	  if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
	  {
	    printf("Unable to insert into the contents of the widget\\n");
	  {
	}
.fi
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
If the data is in a disk file, rather than in memory, the application should 
use \fBDtEditorInsertFromFile(3)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorAppend(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorAppendFromFile(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorGetContents(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorInsertFromFile(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSetContents(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile(3)\fP,
.sp .5

