.TH DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorSaveContentsToFile \- save the contents of a DtEditor widget to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorSaveContentsToFile('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorSaveContentsToFile(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2fileName\fP,
	Boolean \f2overwriteIfExists\fP,
	Boolean \f2hardCarriageReturns\fP,
	Boolean \f2markContentsAsSaved\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile
function saves the entire contents of the DtEditor widget to a file,
optionally replacing soft line feeds (word wraps)
with
.tK newline s.
If the file does not exist and the directory has the correct
write permissions, the file is created.
If the file exists and the
.I overwriteIfExists
argument is set to
True,
the contents of the file are overwritten.
If the file or its directory does not have the correct write
permissions, an error is returned.
.P
The DtEditor widget tracks whether its contents have changed since they were
last saved or retrieved.
If the
.I markContentsAsSaved
argument is set to False,
a copy of the data is saved without affecting whether
.Fn DtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges 3
reports that there are unsaved changes.
This is useful if the application needs to save a copy of the
contents to a temporary file.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I fileName
argument is the pathname of the file
relative to the local system.
.P
The
.I overwriteIfExists
argument, if set to
True,
causes
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile
to save the widget contents even though the file specified by the
.I fileName
argument exists and has correct write permissions.
If this argument is set to
False,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile
returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_WRITABLE_FILE .
.P
The
.I hardCarriageReturns
argument, if set to
True,
indicates that the widget should replace
any soft line feeds (word wraps) with
.tK newline s
when saving
the data.
When this argument is set to
False,
any line wrapped because it reaches the
right edge of the window, is saved as one complete line.
.P
The
.I markContentsAsSaved
argument, when set to
True,
causes the DtEditor widget to mark that
all changes made to date have been saved.
When this argument is set to
False,
the DtEditor widget
does not change its status regarding unsaved changes.
If an error arises during the save,
the status does not change, regardless of the
value of the
.I markContentsAsSaved
argument.
.br
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile
function returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_\%NO_ERRORS ;
otherwise, if it cannot save the data to the file,
the function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_FILENAME
.br
No file was specified.
.Lc DtEDITOR_UNWRITABLE_FILE
.br
The application does not have write
permission for the file or directory.
.Lc DtEDITOR_CHAR_SPECIAL_FILE
.br
The file is a device-special file.
.Lc DtEDITOR_BLOCK_MODE_FILE
.br
The file is a block-mode device.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_FILE_ACCESS
.br
The file cannot be accessed.
.Lc DtEDITOR_SAVE_FAILED
.br
The contents could not be saved for an
unspecified reason.
.Lc DtEDITOR_WRITABLE_FILE
.br
The named files exist and the
.I overwriteIfExists
argument is set to
False.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment saves the contents
of a DtEditor widget to the local file, Foo, substituting
.tK newline s
for soft line feeds.
It also indicates that all changes
to the contents of the widget have been saved.
.Cs I
Widget                  editor;
DtEditorErrorCode       status;
char                    *fname = "Foo";
Boolean                 overwrite = False,
                        hardReturns = True,
                        markContentsAsSaved = True;
.sp 0.5v
status = DtEditorSaveContentsToFile(editor, fname, overwrite,
                                    hardReturns, markContentsAsSaved);
.sp 0.5v
switch(status )
{
        case DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS:
                break;
.sp 0.5v
        case DtEDITOR_WRITABLE_FILE:
                printf("Save failed.  The file already exists.\en");
                break;
.sp 0.5v
        default:
                printf("Could not save contents.\en");
                break;
}
.Ce
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3
to retrieve the data in a memory buffer,
rather than a disk file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3.
