.TH DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog 3 "3 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog \- display the DtEditor widget dialog for choosing formatting options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog('u
void DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog(Widget \f2widget\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog
function displays the Format Settings dialog of the DtEditor widget.
This dialog
enables a user to set the text formatting options:
margins and
text alignments (left aligned, right aligned, justified or centered).
The dialog also provides the capability to format either the paragraph
containing the insertion cursor or the entire contents of the DtEditor widget.
The Format Settings dialog remains displayed until the user closes it.
For a complete description of the Format Settings dialog, see
.IR DtEditor .
.P
Text can be formatted programmatically with
.Fn DtEditorFormat 3.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorFormat 3.
