.TH DtEditorChange 3 "8 August 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorChange \- change one or all occurrences of a string in a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtEditorChange('u
Boolean DtEditorChange(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	DtEditorChangeValues *\f2findChangeStrings\fP,
	unsigned int \f2instanceToChange\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorChange
function replaces the next occurrence of a string, all occurrences of
the string, or the currently selected text in a DtEditor widget with a
replacement string.
The string to search for and the value to
change it to can be the last values entered in the Find/Change
dialog (see
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog 3)
or passed as arguments to
.Fn DtEditorChange .
.P
The search begins at the insertion cursor.
If the string is not found by the time the end of the document is reached,
the search continues at the beginning of the document,
stopping at the character before the insertion cursor.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I findChangeStrings
argument specifies the string to change and the replacement value.
If
.I findChangeStrings
is
.Cn NULL ,
.Fn DtEditorChange
uses the last string specified in the Find and Change To fields
of the Find/Change dialog.
If the
.I instanceToChange
argument is
.Cn DtEDITOR_CURRENT_SELECTION ,
the Find field of
.B DtEditorChangeValues
is ignored.
.P
If the
.I instanceToChange
argument
is set to
.Cn DtEDITOR_NEXT_OCCURRENCE ,
.Fn DtEditorChange
replaces the next occurrence (relative to the
insertion cursor) of the find string.
If this argument is set to
.Cn DtEDITOR_ALL_OCCURRENCES ,
all instances of the find string are changed.
If this argument ia set to
.Cn DtEDITOR_CURRENT_SELECTION ,
the Find field of
.BR DtEditorChangeValues ,
is ignored and the currently selected text is replaced.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.P
For a complete definition of
.BR DtEditorChangeValues ,
see
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorChange
function returns
True
if the substitution occurred;
otherwise, it returns
False.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorFind 3,
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog 3.
