.TH DtEditorSetContents 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorSetContents \- place data into a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorSetContents('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorSetContents(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	DtEditorContentRec *\f2data\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorSetContents
function places a
.Cn NULL \-terminated
string, wide character string
or sized buffer into a DtEditor widget.
Any data currently in the DtEditor widget is lost.
The data is transferred to the
DtEditor widget using a
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
which indicates the
type of data being transferred along with the actual data.
After the data is placed into the DtEditor widget, the insertion cursor is
positioned at the first character.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I data
argument is a pointer to a data structure containing
the new contents of
.IR widget .
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.P
For a complete definition of
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
see
.Hd Dt/Editor 5.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.xos
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorSetContents
function returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_\%NO_ERRORS ;
otherwise, it returns one of the following values:
.xoe
.cdes
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorSetContents
function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS
.br
The data was loaded sucessfully.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED
.br
NULL characters were found and removed from the data.
.LE
.P
Otherwise, if
the
.Fn DtEditorSetContents
function
cannot load the data in the DtEditor widget,
it returns one of the following values:
.cdee
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE
.br
The Type field is unrecognized.
.Lc DtEDITOR_ILLEGAL_SIZE
.br
The size of the buffer passed in is negative.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULL_ITEM
.br
The buffer is
.Cn NULL .
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Not enough system memory is available to load the data.
.cdee
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment sets the contents of a DtEditor
widget to ``The quick brown fox.''
.Cs I
Widget                  editor;
DtEditorContentRec      cr;
DtEditorErrorCode       status;
char                    *sampleString="The quick brown fox";
.sp 0.5v
cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
cr.value.string = sampleString;
status = DtEditorSetContents(editor, &cr);
.xo if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS) {
.cde if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS && status != DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED) {
        printf("Unable to set contents of the widget\en");
.Ce
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the data is in a disk file, rather than in memory, the application should
use
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
