.TH DtEditorInsert 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorInsert \- insert data into a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorInsert('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorInsert(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	DtEditorContentRec *\f2data\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorInsert
function inserts either a string, wide character string or sized buffer
at the insertion cursor position in a DtEditor widget.
The data is transferred to the
DtEditor widget using a
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
which indicates the
type of data being transferred along with the actual data.
After the data is appended, the insertion cursor is positioned after the
last character inserted.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I data
argument is a pointer to a data structure
containing the data to insert.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.P
For a complete definition of
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
see
.Hd Dt/Editor 5.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.xos
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorInsert
function returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_\%NO_ERRORS ;
otherwise, it returns one of the following values:
.xoe
.cdes
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorInsert
function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS
.br
The data was inserted sucessfully.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED
.br
NULL characters were found and removed from the data.
.LE
.P
Otherwise, if
the
.Fn DtEditorInsert
function
cannot insert the data into the DtEditor widget,
it returns one of the following values:
.cdee
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE
.br
The Type field is not recognized.
.Lc DtEDITOR_ILLEGAL_SIZE
.br
The size of the buffer passed in is negative.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULL_ITEM
.br
The buffer is
.Cn NULL .
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Not enough system memory is available to insert the data.
.cdee
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment sets the contents of a DtEditor
widget to ``The quick brown fox.''
.Cs I
Widget                  editor;
DtEditorContentRec      cr;
DtEditorErrorCode       status;
char                    *sampleString1="The brown fox",
                        *sampleString2=" quick";
.sp 0.5v
cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
cr.value.string = sampleString1;
status = DtEditorSetContents(editor, &cr);
.xo if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS) {
.cde if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS && status != DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED) {
        printf("Unable to set contents of the widget\en");
} else {
  /*
   * Move the insertion cursor so it is after the
   * letter 'e' in "The".
   */
        DtEditorSetInsertionCursorPosition(editor, 2);
.sp 0.5v
        cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
        cr.data.string = sampleString2;
        status = DtEditorInsert(editor, &cr);
        if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
          printf("Unable to insert into the contents of the widget\en");
}
.Ce
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the data is in a disk file, rather than in memory, the application should
use
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetInsertionPosition 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetInsertionPosition 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
