.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorGetSizeHints 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorGetSizeHints(3) \- Retrieve sizing information from an Editor 
widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorGetSizeHints"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorGetSizeHints"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
void DtEditorGetSizeHints (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP,
.br
	XSizeHints	*\fIpHints\fP,)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorGetSizeHints\fP retrieves the current sizing information from
an \fIwidget\fP, allowing the application to compute appropriate size hints 
for the window manager.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.IP "\fIpHints\fP" 1.00i
Pointer to an XSizeHints structure into which the current sizing 
information is placed.
.PP
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBDtEditorGetSizeHints\fP will fill in the following fields of the
XSizeHints structure: minimum width and height, width and height increment, 
base width and height.  The flags field will be set to: \fIPMinSize | 
PResizeInc | PBaseSize | PSize | PPosition\fP.
.sp .5
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
The following code segment sets the resize increment and minimum window 
size properties for the application.
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 
	Widget		editor,
			application_shell;
	Display		display;
	XSizeHints	size_hints;
	long		supplied_return;

	XGetWMSizeHints( display, XtWindow(application_shell), 
			 &size_hints, &supplied_return, XA_WM_NORMAL_HINTS );

	DtEditorGetResizeHints( editor, &size_hints );

	XSetWMSizeHints( display, XtWindow(application_shell), 
			 &size_hints, XA_WM_NORMAL_HINTS);

.fi
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP. 
.sp .5

