.TH DtEditorAppend 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorAppend \- append data to a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorAppend('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorAppend(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	DtEditorContentRec *\f2data\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorAppend
function appends either a
.Cn NULL -terminated
string, wide character string or sized buffer
after the last character in a DtEditor widget.
The data is transferred to the DtEditor widget using a
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
which indicates the
type of data being transferred along with the actual data.
After the data is appended, the insertion cursor is positioned at the
new last character.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I data
argument points to the data structure containing the data to append.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.P
For a complete definition of
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
see
.Hd Dt/Editor 5.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.xos
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorAppend
function returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_\%NO_ERRORS ;
otherwise, it returns one of the following values:
.xoe
.cdes
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorAppend
function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS
.br
The data was appended sucessfully.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED
.br
NULL characters were found and removed from the data.
.LE
.P
Otherwise, if
the
.Fn DtEditorAppend
function
cannot append the data into the DtEditor widget,
it returns one of the following values:
.cdee
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE
.br
The
.I type
field is unrecognized.
.Lc DtEDITOR_ILLEGAL_SIZE
.br
The size of the buffer passed in is negative.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULL_ITEM
.br
The buffer is
.Cn NULL .
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Not enough system memory is available to append the data.
.cdee
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment sets the contents of a DtEditor
widget to ``The quick brown fox.''
.Cs I
Widget                  editor;
DtEditorContentRec      cr;
DtEditorErrorCode       status;
char                    *sampleString1="The quick",
                        *secondString2=" brown fox";
.sp 0.5v
cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
cr.value.string = sampleString1;
status = DtEditorSetContents(editor, &cr);
.xo if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS) {
.cde if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS && status != DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED) {
        printf("Unable to set the contents of the widget\en");
} else {
        cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
        cr.value.string = sampleString2;
        status = DtEditorAppend(editor, &cr);
        if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
                printf("Unable to append to the contents of the widget\en");
}
.Ce
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the data is in a disk file, rather than in memory, the application should
use
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
