.TH DtEditorAppendFromFile 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorAppendFromFile \- append data from a file into a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorAppendFromFile('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorAppendFromFile(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2fileName\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.The
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile
function appends data from a file to
after the last character in a DtEditor widget.
After the data is appended, the insertion cursor is positioned at the
new last character.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I fileName
argument is the pathname of the file
relative to the local system.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile
function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS
.br
The file is readable and writable.
.Lc DtEDITOR_READ_ONLY_FILE
.br
The file is read only.
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED
.br
The file contained embedded
.Cn NULL
characters, which were removed.
.cdee
.LE
.P
Otherwise, if
the
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile
function
cannot append the data into the DtEditor widget,
it returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NONEXISTENT_FILE
.br
The file does not exist.
.Lc DtEDITOR_DIRECTORY
.br
The file is a directory.
.Lc DtEDITOR_CHAR_SPECIAL_FILE
.br
The file is a character-special device.
.Lc DtEDITOR_BLOCK_MODE_FILE
.br
The file is a block-mode device.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_FILE_ACCESS
.br
The file cannot be accessed.
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Not enough system memory is available to append the file.
.cdee
.Lc DtEDITOR_UNREADABLE_FILE
.br
The file is unreadable for an unspecified reason.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the data is in memory, rather than a disk file, the application should
use
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3.
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
