.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorSetWindowWrap 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorSetWindowWrap(3) \- Turns window wrap mode on or 
off for an Editor widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorSetWindowWrap"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorSetWindowWrap"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
void DtEditorSetWindowWrap (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP,
.br
	Boolean	\fIwindowWrap\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorSetWindowWrap\fP turns window wrap mode on or off for an 
Editor widget, specified by \fIwidget\fP.
If window wrap mode is turned on, lines will be broken at word breaks
with soft carriage returns when they reach the right edge of the
window.  If it is turned off, the Editor will scroll horizontally for
long lines.
.P
Note, window wrap affects only the visual appearance of the contents of an
Editor widget.  The line breaks (soft carriage returns) are not
physically inserted into the text.  See also DtEditorGetContents(3) and
DtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3).
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwindowWrap\fP" 1.00i
When set to True, \fIwidget\fP will be in window wrap mode.  When set to
False, window wrap mode is turned off.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorGetContents(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3)\fP. 
.sp .5
