.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorSetStatusLine 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorSetStatusLine(3) \- Turns on or off the status line
for an Editor widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorSetStatusLine"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorSetStatusLine"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
void DtEditorSetStatusLine (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP,
.br
	Boolean	\fIstatusLine\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorSetStatusLine\fP turns the status line on or off for the
Editor widget, specified by \fIwidget\fP.
The status line appears below the main text window's horizontal
scrollbar and contains a field which displays the current line number 
of the insert cursor.  The user
can move the cursor to a new line by typing a new line number
into the field.  The status line also displays an optional message string 
which the application can use to provide feedback to the user.  
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIstatusLine\fP" 1.00i
When set to True, \fIwidget\fP will display a status line.  When set to
False, the status line will not be displayed.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorSetStatusMessage(3)\fP. 
.sp .5
