.TH DtEditorGetSizeHints 3 "3 August 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" ************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorGetSizeHints \- retrieve sizing information from a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtEditorGetSizeHints('u
void DtEditorGetSizeHints(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	XSizeHints *\f2pHints\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorGetSizeHints
function retrieves the current sizing information from
a DtEditor widget, allowing the application to compute appropriate size hints
for the window manager.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I pHints
argument is a pointer to an
.B XSizeHints
structure into which the current sizing information is placed.
The fields in this structure do not have to contain any
values when it is passed in.
.P
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorGetSizeHints
function fills in the following fields of the
.B XSizeHints
structure: minimum width (\c
.IR min_width )
and height (\c
.IR min_height );
width (\c
.IR width_inc )
and height (\c
.IR height_inc )
increment; and base width (\c
.IR base_width )
and height (\c
.IR base_height );
otherwise, the structure is unchanged.
The Flags field is set to:
.Cs I
PMinSize | PResizeInc | PBaseSize
.Ce
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtEditorGetSizeHints
function returns no value.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment sets the resize increment and minimum window
size properties for the application.
.Cs I
Widget          editor,
                application_shell;
Display         display;
XSizeHints      size_hints;
long            supplied_return;
.sp 0.5v
XGetWMSizeHints(display, XtWindow(application_shell),
                 &size_hints, &supplied_return, XA_WM_NORMAL_HINTS);
.sp 0.5v
DtEditorGetSizeHints(editor, &size_hints);
.sp 0.5v
XSetWMSizeHints(display, XtWindow(application_shell),
                 &size_hints, XA_WM_NORMAL_HINTS);
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3.
