.TH DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorReplaceFromFile \- replace a portion of the contents of a DtEditor widget with the contents of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorReplaceFromFile('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorReplaceFromFile(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	XmTextPosition \f2startPos\fP,
	XmTextPosition \f2endPos\fP,
	char *\f2fileName\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile
function
replaces part of the contents of a DtEditor widget
with the contents of a file.
All data following the start position
and up to, but not including, the end position is replaced.
If the start position and the end position are equal, the
data is inserted after the end position.
The character positions begin at zero and are numbered sequentially
from the beginning of the text.
After the replacement, the insertion cursor is positioned after the
last character inserted.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I startPos
argument specifies the starting character position of
the portion to replace.
The replacement begins
at this character.
.P
The
.I endPos
argument specifies the ending character position of
the portion to replace.
The replacement ends
before this character.
.P
The
.I fileName
argument is the pathname of the file
relative to the local system.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile
function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS
.br
The file is readable and writable.
.Lc DtEDITOR_READ_ONLY_FILE
.br
The file is read only.
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED
.br
The file contained embedded
.Cn NULL
characters, which were removed.
.cdee
.LE
.P
Otherwise, if it cannot insert the data into the DtEditor widget,
the function
returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_RANGE
.br
The
.I startPos
argument is greater than the
.I endPos
argument.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NONEXISTENT_FILE
.br
The file does not exist.
.Lc DtEDITOR_DIRECTORY
.br
The file is a directory.
.Lc DtEDITOR_CHAR_SPECIAL_FILE
.br
The file is a character-special device.
.Lc DtEDITOR_BLOCK_MODE_FILE
.br
The file is a block-mode device.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_FILE_ACCESS
.br
The file cannot be accessed.
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Not enough system memory is available to replace the data.
.cdee
.Lc DtEDITOR_UNREADABLE_FILE
.br
The file is unreadable for an unspecified reason.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the data is in memory, rather than a disk file, the application should
use
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
