.TH DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog 3 "3 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog \- display the DtEditor widget dialog for searching and replacing text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog('u
void DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog(Widget \f2widget\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog
function displays the Find/Change dialog for the DtEditor widget.
This dialog enables a
user to search for, and optionally replace, a string in the
text for the DtEditor widget.
It also allows the user to specify a replacement
string, which can be substituted for either the next occurrence of the
search string or all occurrences.
The Find/Change dialog remains displayed until the user closes it.
For a complete description of the Find/Change dialog see
.IR DtEditor .
.P
Subsequent searches for the last search string entered can be made by
calling
.Fn DtEditorFind 3.
Subsequent substitutions can be made with
.Fn DtEditorChange 3.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorChange 3,
.Fn DtEditorFind 3.
