.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog(3) \- Searches, and optionally
replaces, a string in an Editor.\fP
.iX "DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
void	DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog\fP posts the Find/Change dialog which 
prompts for a search string. 
When the user enters a text string (regular expressions are 
not supported, at this time), the next
occurance of the specified string is highlighted in the Editor, if
found.  Otherwise, Editor displays a message dialog stating the string 
was not found.
.P
The Find/Change dialog also allows the user to specify a replacement
string, which can be substituted for either the next occurance of the
search string or all occurances.
.P
The Find/Change dialog remains posted until the user closes it.
Subsequent searches for the last search string entered can be made by
calling \fBDtEditorFind(3)\fP.  Subsequent substitutions can
be made with \fBDtEditorChange(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorChange(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorFind(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorManageDialogs(3)\fP, and
\fBDtEditorUnmanageDialogs(3)\fP.
.sp .5
