.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorGetContents 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorGetContents(3) \- Retrieve the contents of an Editor widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorGetContents"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorGetContents"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorGetContents (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget \fIwidget\fP,
.br
	DtEditorContentRec *\fIdata\fP,
.br
	Boolean	\fImarkContentsAsSaved\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorGetContents\fP retrieves the entire contents of an Editor
widget, \fIwidget\fP, in
the format specified by the content record, \fIdata\fP.  The data can be
retrieved as either a string or wide character string.
.P
The Editor widget keeps track of whether there have been changes to its
contents since the contents were last saved or retrieved.  
There may be times when an application will want to request a
copy of the contents without effecting whether 
\fBDtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges(3)\fP reports there are
unsaved changes.  For example, when the application needs a
temporary copy of the contents for printing.  The application can
indicate this with \fImarkContentsAsSaved\fP.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.IP "\fIdata\fP" 1.00i
Pointer to a data structure to receive the contents of \fIwidget\fP.
.IP "\fImarkContentsAsSaved\fP" 1.00i
Setting \fImarkContentsAsSaved\fP to True causes the Editor to mark that
all changes made to date have been saved.  When set to False, the Editor
will not change its status regarding unsaved changes.
.sp .5
.PP
This function transfers content data between the 
Editor widget and the application using a \fBDtEditorContentRec\fP.  
This structure indicates the 
type of data to be transfered along with the actual data.
.sp .5
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 1.5i 2.0i
\fBtypedef struct DtEditorContentRec\fP {
	\fBDtEditorFormat\fP \fItype\fP;
	union {
		\fBchar\fP	*\fIstring\fP;
		\fBwchar_t\fP	*\fIwchar\fP;
	} value;
} \fBDtEditorContentRec\fP\fP;
.sp .5
.IP "\fItype\fP"
Indicates in what format the data should be retrieved from the widget.  
There are two possible types.
.wH
.rS
.TP
\(bu
DtEDITOR_TEXT - \fIvalue\fP pointer to a NULL terminated string of 
characters (a char *)
.TP
\(bu
DtEDITOR_WCHAR - \fIvalue\fP is a \fBwchar_t*\fP value.
.fi
.sp .5
.IP "\fIvalue\fP"
The data retrieved from \fIwidget\fP.  It is the responsibility of the 
application to free this string with \fBXtFree(3X)\fP when it is
finished with it.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
When the data is retrieved sucessfully from the widget,
\fBDtEditorGetContents\fP returns \fBDtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS\fP.
If the type specified is not recognized \fBDtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE\fP is 
returned.
.sp .5
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
The following code segment retrieves the contents of an Editor, marking
that all changes to date have been saved.
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 
	Widget			editor;
	DtEditorContentRec	cr;
	DtEditorErrorCode       status;
	Boolean			markContentsAsSaved = True;

	cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
	status = DtEditorGetContents ( editor, &cr, markContentsAsSaved );
	if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
	{
	  printf( "The contents are:\\n%s\\n", cr.value.string );
	}
	else
	{
          printf("Unable to retrieve contents of the widget\\n");
	}

.fi
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
To write the data directly to a file 
the application should use \fBDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorAppend(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorAppendFromFile(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorInsert(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorInsertFromFile(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSetContents(3)\fP, and
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile(3)\fP.
.sp .5

