.TH DtEditorEnableRedisplay 3 "15 November 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorEnableRedisplay \- force the visual update of a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtEditorEnableRedisplay('u
void DtEditorEnableRedisplay(Widget \f2widget\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorEnableRedisplay
function forces a DtEditor widget to update its visual
display if any visual attributes have been set or modified
since the
.Fn DtEditorDisableRedisplay 3
function was called for the specified widget.
Any subsequent changes that affect the widget's visual
appearance will cause the widget to update its display.
These functions allow an application to make multiple
changes to an editor widget without causing intermediate
visual updates.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtEditorEnableRedisplay
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorDisableRedisplay 3.
