.TH DtEditorReplace 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorReplace \- replace a portion of the contents of a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorReplace('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorReplace(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	XmTextPosition \f2startPos\fP,
	XmTextPosition \f2endPos\fP,
	DtEditorContentRec *\f2data\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorReplace
function replaces part of the contents of a DtEditor widget with a string,
a wide character string or sized buffer.
The data is transferred to the
DtEditor widget using a
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
which indicates the
type of data being transferred along with the actual data.
All data following the start position
and up to, but not including, the end position is replaced.
If the start position and the end position are equal, the
data is inserted after the end position.
The character positions begin at zero and are numbered sequentially
from the beginning of the text.
After the replacement, the insertion cursor is positioned after the
last character inserted.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I startPos
argument specifies the starting character position of
the portion to replace.
The replacement begins
at this character.
.P
The
.I endPos
argument specifies the ending character position of
the portion to replace.
The replacement ends
before this character.
.P
The
.I data
argument is a pointer to the data structure
containing the data to insert.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.P
For a complete definition of
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
see
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.xos
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorReplace
function returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_\%NO_ERRORS ;
otherwise, if it cannot
replace the string, the function returns one of the following values:
.xoe
.cdes
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorReplace
function returns one of the following values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS
.br
The data was replaced sucessfully.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED
.br
NULL characters were found and removed from the data.
.LE
.P
Otherwise, if
the
.Fn DtEditorReplace
function
cannot replace the data in the DtEditor widget,
it returns one of the following values:
.cdee
.VL 6
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE
.br
The Type field is not recognized.
.Lc DtEDITOR_INVALID_RANGE
.br
The
.I startPos
argument is greater than the
.I endPos
argument.
.Lc DtEDITOR_ILLEGAL_SIZE
.br
The size of the buffer passed in is negative.
.Lc DtEDITOR_NULL_ITEM
.br
The data buffer is
.Cn NULL .
.cdes
.Lc DtEDITOR_INSUFFICIENT_MEMORY
.br
Not enough system memory is available to replace the data.
.cdee
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment modifies the contents of a
DtEditor widget to ``The quick fox.''
.Cs I
Widget                  editor;
DtEditorContentRec      cr;
DtEditorErrorCode       status;
XmTextPosition          start = (XmTextPosition) 4,
                        end = (XmTextPosition) 9;
char                    *sampleString1="The brown fox",
                        *sampleString2="quick";
.sp 0.5v
cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
cr.value.string = sampleString1;
status = DtEditorSetContents(editor, &cr);
.xo if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS) {
.cde if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS && status != DtEDITOR_NULLS_REMOVED) {
        printf("Unable to set contents of the widget\en");
} else {
        cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
        cr.data.string = sampleString2;
        status = DtEditorReplace(editor, start, end, &cr);
        if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
          printf("Unable to replace part of the widget contents\en");
}
.Ce
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the data is in a disk file, rather than in memory, the application should
use
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
