.TH DtEditorSetInsertionPosition 3 "3 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorSetInsertionPosition \- set the position of the insert cursor in a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtEditorSetInsertionPosition('u
void DtEditorSetInsertionPosition(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	XmTextPosition \f2position\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorSetInsertionPosition
function sets the insertion cursor position of the DtEditor widget.
The current position of the insertion cursor can be retrieved with
.Fn DtEditorGetInsertionPosition 3.
The last text position of the DtEditor widget can be retrieved with
.Fn DtEditorGetLastPosition 3.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I position
argument specifies the position of the insertion
cursor.
This is an integer number of characters from the beginning of
the text buffer.
The first character position is zero.
Values greater
than the last position place the cursor at the last
position (that is, at the end of the text).
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtEditorSetInsertionPosition
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetInsertionPosition 3,
.Fn DtEditorGetLastPosition 3.
