.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorChange 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorChange(3) \- Changes one or all occurences of a string in 
an Editor.\fP
.iX "DtEditorChange"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorChange"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
Boolean	DtEditorChange (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP,
	unsigned int	\fIinstanceToChange\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorChange\fP replaces the next occurrence 
of the search string in the contents of \fIwidget\fP with the replace string.
Both strings are specified in the Find/Change dialog 
(see \fBDtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog(3)\fP).
Optionally, \fBDtEditorChange\fP can
replace all occurences of the search string.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIinstanceToChange\fP" 1.00i
If set to \fBDtEDITOR_NEXT_OCCURRENCE\fI, \fBDtEditorChange\fP replaces
the next occurrence (relative to the
insert cursor) of the search string.  If set to \fBDtEDITOR_ALL_OCCURRENCES\fP,
all instances of the search string will be changed.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBDtEditorChange\fP returns True if the substitution occurred,
otherwise returns False.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorFind(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorManageDialogs(3)\fP, and
\fBDtEditorUnmanageDialogs(3)\fP.
.sp .5
