.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorAppend 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorAppend(3) \- Appends data to an Editor widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorAppend"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorAppend"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorAppend (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget \fIwidget\fP,
.br
	DtEditorContentRec *\fIdata\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorAppend\fP inserts data defined by the content record,
\fIdata\fP at the end of the contents of an Editor widget, \fIwidget\fP.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.IP "\fIdata\fP" 1.00i
Pointer to a data structure containing the data to append.
.sp .5
.PP
This function transfers content data between the application and the
Editor widget using a \fBDtEditorContentRec\fP.  
This structure indicates the 
type of data to be transfered along with the actual data.
.sp .5
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 1.5i 2.0i
\fBtypedef struct DtEditorContentRec\fP {
	\fBDtEditorFormat\fP \fItype\fP;
	union {
		\fBchar\fP	*\fIstring\fP;
		\fBwchar_t\fP	*\fIwchar\fP;
	} value;
} \fBDtEditorContentRec\fP\fP;
.sp .5
.IP "\fItype\fP"
Indicates the type of data being passed to the widget.  There are two
possible types.
.wH
.rS
.TP
\(bu
DtEDITOR_TEXT - \fIvalue\fP points to a NULL terminated string of 
characters (a char *)
.TP
\(bu
DtEDITOR_WCHAR - \fIvalue\fP is a \fBwchar_t*\fP value.
.fi
.sp .5
.IP "\fIvalue\fP"
The value to be appended to \fIwidget\fP.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
When the data is placed sucessfully into the widget,
\fBDtEditorAppend\fP returns \fBDtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS\fP.
If \fItype\fP is unrecognized, \fBDtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE\fP is returned.
.sp .5
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
The following code segment sets the contents of an Editor to "The quick
brown fox".
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 
	Widget			editor;
	DtEditorContentRec	cr;
	DtEditorErrorCode	status;
	char * 			sampleString1="The quick",
				secondString2="brown fox";

	cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
	cr.data.string = sampleString1;
	status = DtEditorSetContents ( editor, &cr );
	if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
	{
	  printf("Unable to set the contents of the widget\n");
	}
	else
	{
	  cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
	  cr.data.string = sampleString2;
	  status = DtEditorAppend ( editor, &cr );
	  if (status != DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
	  {
	    printf("Unable to append to the contents of the widget\n");
	  {
	}
.fi
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
If the data is in a disk file, rather than in memory, the application should 
use \fBDtEditorAppendFromFile(3)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorAppendFromFile(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorGetContents(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorInsert(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorInsertFromFile(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSetContents(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile(3)\fP,
.sp .5

