.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **
.TH DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3 ""
.BH "3 May - 1994"
.SH NAME
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile(3) \- Loads data from a file into an Editor widget.\fP
.iX "DtEditorSetContentsFromFile"
.iX "DtEditor functions" "DtEditorSetContentsFromFile"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp .5
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorSetContentsFromFile (
.br
.ta	0.75i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP,
.br
	char	*\fIhostName\fP,
.br
	char	*\fIfileName\fP,
.br
	DtEditorFormat *\fIfileType\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile\fP loads the contents a file into the
Editor widget, \fIwidget\fP, reporting the type of file read.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.00i
Specifies the editor widget ID.
.IP "\fIhostName\fP" 1.00i
The hostname of the system where \fIfileName\fP resides.  It should be set to 
NULL if the \fIfileName\fP is on the local system.
.IP "\fIfileName\fP" 1.00i
Path and name of the file on \fIhostName\fP.  If \fIhostName\fP
is NULL, it is assumed the path is relative to the local system.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIfileType\fP"
When \fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile\fP returns, \fIfileType\fP will indicate 
the type of data read.
At this point in time, the type will always be reported as \fBDtEDITOR_TEXT\fP.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of Editor and its associated resources, see
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile\fP returns one of the following two values 
when it sucessfully loads the data into the Editor:
.ta	2.6i
.wH
.rS
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS\fP	the file is readable and writable 
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_READ_ONLY_FILE\fP	the file is read only
read only
.PP
.ta	2.6i
\fBDtEditorSetContentsFromFile\fP returns one of the following two values 
if it cannot load the data into the Editor:
.wH
.rS
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_NONEXISTANT_FILE\fP	file does not exist
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_DIRECTORY\fP	the file is a directory
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_CHAR_SPECIAL_FILE\fP	the file is a character special device
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_BLOCK_MODE_FILE\fP	the file is a block mode device
.TP
\(bu
\fBDtEDITOR_UNREADABLE_FILE\fP	file is unreadable for an unlisted reason
.sp .5
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
The following code segment loads the contents of the local file, Foo, into
an Editor widget.
.P
.nf
.ta .25i 1.1i 
	Widget			editor;
	DtEditorErrorCode       status;
	DtEditorFormat		type;
	char * 			fname = "Foo",
				hname = NULL;

	status = DtEditorSetContentsFromFile ( editor, hname, fname, &type );
	switch ( status )
	{
	  case DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS:
	  {
	    printf("Read a file of type %d.\\n", type );
	    break;
	  }
	  case DtEDITOR_READ_ONLY_FILE:
	  {
	    printf("The file is read only.\\n", type );
	    break;
	  }
	  case DtEDITOR_NONEXISTANT_FILE:
	  {
	    printf( "Could not find file.\\n" );
	    break;
	  }
	  case DtEDITOR_UNREADABLE_FILE:
	  {
	    printf( "Could not read the file.\\n" );
	    break;
	  }
	  case DtEDITOR_DIRECTORY:
	  {
	    printf( "The name given is a directory.\\n" );
	    break;
	  }
	  case DtEDITOR_CHAR_SPECIAL_FILE:
	  {
	    printf( "The name given is a character special device.\\n" );
	    break;
	  }
	  case DtEDITOR_BLOCK_MODE_FILE:
	  {
	    printf( "The name given is a block mode device.\\n");
	    break;
	  }
	}
.fi
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
If the data is in memory, rather than a disk file, the application should 
use \fBDtEditorSetContents(3)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtEditor(3)\fP, 
\fBDtEditorAppend(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorAppendFromFile(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorGetContents(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorInsert(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorInsertFromFile(3)\fP.
\fBDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3)\fP,
\fBDtEditorSetContents(3)\fP.
.sp .5

