.TH DtEditorGetContents 3 "30 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" ************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtEditorGetContents \- retrieve the contents of a DtEditor widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Editor.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorGetContents('u
DtEditorErrorCode DtEditorGetContents(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	DtEditorContentRec *\f2data\fP,
	Boolean \f2hardCarriageReturns\fP,
	Boolean \f2markContentsAsSaved\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtEditorGetContents
function retrieves the entire contents of a DtEditor widget as
a string, wide character string or sized buffer of data.
The data is transferred from the
DtEditor widget using a
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
which indicates the
type of data being transferred along with the actual data.
If desired, any soft
line feeds (word wraps) can be replaced with
.tK newline s.
.P
The DtEditor widget tracks whether its contents have changed since they
were last saved or retrieved.
Setting the
.I markContentsAsSaved
argument to True
retrieves a copy of the data without
affecting whether
.Fn DtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges 3
reports that there are unsaved changes.
This is useful if the application needs a temporary copy of the
contents.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.
.P
The
.I data
argument is a pointer to a data structure to receive
the contents of
.IR widget .
.P
The
.I hardCarriageReturns
argument, if set to
True,
indicates that the DtEditor widget should replace
any soft line feeds (word wraps) with
.tK newline s
when saving
the data.
When
.I hardCarriageReturns
is set to
False,
any line wrapped because it reaches the
right edge of the window is saved as one complete line.
.P
The
.I markContentsAsSaved
argument, if set to
True,
causes the DtEditor widget to mark that all changes made to date have been saved.
When
.I markContentsAsSaved
is set to
False,
the DtEditor widget does not change its status regarding unsaved changes.
.cde .P
.cde For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget
.cde and its associated resources, see
.cde .Fn DtEditor 3.
.P
For a complete definition of
.BR DtEditorContentRec ,
see
.Hd Dt/Editor 5.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtEditorGetContents
function returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_\%NO_ERRORS ;
otherwise, it returns
.Cn DtEDITOR_INVALID_TYPE
if the Type field is not recognized.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code segment retrieves the contents of a DtEditor widget,
marking that all changes to date have been saved.
.Cs I
Widget                  editor;
DtEditorContentRec      cr;
DtEditorErrorCode       status;
Boolean                 markContentsAsSaved = True;
.sp 0.5v
cr.type = DtEDITOR_TEXT;
status = DtEditorGetContents(editor, &cr, markContentsAsSaved);
if (status == DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS)
        printf("The contents are:\en%s\en", cr.value.string);
else
        printf("Unable to retrieve contents of the widget\en");
.Ce
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
To write the data directly to a file, the application should use
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Editor.h 5,
.Fn DtEditor 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppend 3,
.Fn DtEditorAppendFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsert 3,
.Fn DtEditorInsertFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplace 3,
.Fn DtEditorReplaceFromFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSaveContentsToFile 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContents 3,
.Fn DtEditorSetContentsFromFile 3.
