.TH DtHelpQuickDialog 3 "11 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtHelpQuickDialog \- DtHelpQuickDialog widget class
.br
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/HelpQuickD.h>
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget provides users with a constrained set of functionality for viewing and
and navigating structured online information (Cde help volumes).
This
functionality includes text and graphics rendering, embedded hypertext
links and limited navigation methods to move through online help information.
The widget supports rendering of Cde help volume, system manual pages,
text files and character string values.
.P
When the user resizes the window, the DtHelpQuickDialog widget
dynamically reformats its contents to fit the new window
size if the
.B DtNhelpType
of the contents is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_TOPIC
or
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_DYNAMIC_STRING .
If the
.B DtNhelpType
of the contents is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_STRING ,
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_MAN_PAGE
or
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_FILE ,
the contents are not reformatted.
Instead, scroll bars may appear when
the user resizes the window smaller than the help contents.
The exact scrollbar behavior is controlled by the
.B DtNscrollBarPolicy
resource.
.P
Users can re-specify certain resources for the automatically
created widget contained within the
DtHelpQuickDialog
hierarchy.
The following is the name of the widget:
.P
.VL
.LI "Display Area \- \f2DisplayArea\fP"
.LE
.P
The
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget honors all default
and user-specified resource settings, with one exception.
In the case where an error occurs
due to a non-valid request, the widget posts the
proper error message in its display area, and modifies the
.B DtNhelpType
to reflect the current contents of the display area (that is,
a string message).
Applications and users should set the
.B DtNhelpType
to the appropriate value with each setting of the help value.
.HU Classes
The DtHelpQuickDialog widget
inherits behavior and resources from the
.IR Core ,
.IR Composite ,
.IR Constraint ,
.I XmManager
and
.I XmBulletinBoard
classes.
.P
The class pointer is
.BR dtHelpQuickDialogClass .
.P
The class name is
.IR DtHelpQuickDialog .
.HU "New Resources"
To reference a resource by name or by class in a
.B \&.Xdefaults
file, the application must remove the
.B DtN
or
.B DtC
prefix and use the remaining letters.
To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a
.B \&.Xdefaults
file, the application must remove the
.B Dt
prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lower case or upper case,
but including any underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using
.Fn XtSetValues
(S), retrieved by using
.Fn XtGetValues
(G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P
.cde .ne 15
.DS
.S -1
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde expand tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 | l .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 l .
DtHelpQuickDialog Resource Set
_
Name@Class@Type@Default@Access
_
DtNbackLabelString@DtCBackLabelString@XmString@Back Track@CSG
DtNcloseCallback@DtCCloseBtnCallback@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
DtNcloseLabelString@DtCcloseLabelString@XmString@Close@CSG
DtNcolumns@DtCColumns@Dimension@50@CSG
.cdes
DtNexecutionPolicy@DtCExecutionPolicy@unsigned char@DtHELP_-@CSG
@@@   EXECUTE-
@@@   _QUERY-
@@@   _UNALIASED
.cdee
DtNhelpFile@DtCHelpFile@char *@NULL@CSG
DtNhelpLabelString@DtCHelpLabelString@XmString@Help@CSG
DtNhelpOnHelp-@DtCHelpOnHelp-@char *@See Definition@C
   Volume@   Volume
.cdes
DtNhelpPrint@DtCHelpPrint@char *@See Definition@CSG
.cdee
DtNhelpType@DtCHelpType@unsigned char@DtHELP_TYPE-@CSG
@@@   _TOPIC
DtNhelpVolume@DtCHelpVolume@char *@NULL@CSG
DtNhyperLink-@DtCHyperLink-@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
   Callback@   Callback
DtNlocationId@DtCLocationId@char *@See Definition@CSG
DtNmanPage@DtCManPage@char *@NULL@CSG
DtNminimizeButtons@DtCMinimizeButtons@Boolean@True@C
DtNmoreLabelString@DtCMoreLabelString@XmString@More@CSG
.cdes
DtNpaperSize@DtCPaperSize@unsigned char@See Definition@C
DtNprinter@DtCPrinter@char *@NULL@CSG
.cdee
DtNprintLabelString@DtCPrintLabelString@XmString@Print...@CSG
DtNrows@DtCRows@Dimension@15@CSG
DtNscrollBarPolicy@DtCScrollBarPolicy@unsigned char@DtHELP_AS-@C
@@@   _NEEDED-
@@@   _SCROLLBARS
DtNstringData@DtCStringData@char *@NULL@CSG
DtNtopicTitle@DtCTopicTitle@char *@NULL@CSG
.TE
.S +1
.DE
.P
.VL 6
.LI \f3DtNbackLabelString\fP
.br
Specifies the string label for the Back button.
.LI \f3DtNcloseCallback\fP
.br
Specifies the list of callbacks called when the application activates the Close
button.
The callback reason is
.Cn DtCR_HELP_CLOSE .
.LI \f3DtNcloseLabelString\fP
.br
Specifies the string label for the Close button.
.LI \f3DtNcolumns\fP
.br
Specifies the number of columns of text to display in the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget display area.
.cdes
.LI \f3DtNexecutionPolicy\fP
.br
Specifies how to handle ``Execute'' hypertext link types
and embedded scripts.
The default value is set to
.Cn DtHELP_EXECUTE_QUERY_UNALIASED
and supports different semantics based on the usage of a
command alias.
Refer to the Cde Help System Author's and
Programmer's Guide for more information on command alias usage.
With the default value and no command alias, a
query dialog will be posted upon user selection of an
execute hypertext link.
The dialog will show the command
that has been specified and give the user the option to
``Execute Anyway,'' ``Don't Execute'' or request help for
more information.
When a command alias is present for the
selected link, the command will execute silently, and no
query dialog will be posted.
.P
Other values for this resource are
.Cn DtHELP_EXECUTE_NONE ,
.Cn DtHELP_EXECUTE_ALL
and
.Cn DtHELP_EXECUTE_QUERY_ALL .
.B DtHELP_EXECUTE_NONE
forces all execute hypertext links to be ignored.
.B DtHELP_EXECUTE_ALL
allows all execute hypertext links to be executed silently upon link
selection by the user, and
.B DtHELP_EXECUTE_QUERY_ALL
forces the query dialog to be posted with every link invocation.
.cdee
.LI \f3DtNhelpFile\fP
.br
Specifies the absolute pathname of a text file to be read and displayed.
This resource
is used when the
.B DtNhelpType
is set to
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_FILE .
The topic title is required in order to maintain an accurate and descriptive
history list.
.LI \f3DtNhelpLabelString\fP
.br
Specifies the string label for the Help button.
.LI \f3DtNhelpOnHelpVolume\fP
.br
Specifies the help volume that contains the help topics for the help user
interface components in the widget.
This is displayed in an instance
of the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget when the user requests help from within the widget.
The default value for this resource is
.BR Help4Help ,
which refers to
the default supported help volume.
This resource supports absolute pathnames and pathless help volume names.
When just a volume name is used, the volume must be placed or
linked to one of the default search locations, or one of the two help
search path environment variables must be properly set.
See the
.B "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
section for more information on setting and modifying these
variables.
.cdes
.LI \f3DtNhelpPrint\fP
.br
Specifies the location of the
.B dthelpprint
utility used to print help
topics, manual pages, files or help messages from the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
This value defaults to
.BR /usr/dt/bin/dthelpprint .
.cdee
.LI \f3DtNhelpType\fP
.br
Specifies the current topic type.
When the value is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%TOPIC ,
the
.B DtNlocationId
and
.B DtNhelpVolume
resources are used and the
requested help topic is displayed.
When the value is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%STRING
or
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%DYNAMIC_STRING ,
the
.B DtNstringData
resource is
used and the requested string is displayed.
When the value is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_FILE ,
the
.B DtNhelpFile
resource is used and the
requested text file is displayed.
When the value is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%MAN ,
the
.B DtNmanPage
resource is used and the requested system manual page is displayed.
The initial default value is
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%TOPIC ;
however,
each time there is a request to display a help topic, text file,
manual page or text string, the user should reset
.B DtNhelpType
to the proper type.
.LI \f3DtNhelpVolume\fP
.br
Specifies the help volume to use.
This resource is used in conjunction with the
.B DtNlocationId
resource to display help topics.
This resource supports absolute pathnames and pathless help volume names.
When using just a volume name, the volume must be placed in or
linked to one of the default search locations, or one of the two help
search path environment variables must be properly set.
See the
.B "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
section for more information on setting and modifying these
variables.
.LI \f3DtNhyperLinkCallback\fP
.br
Specifies the callback called when a client-specific
hypertext link type is activated in the display area of the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
Links are activated when the user presses mouse
button
1
over a hypertext link, or presses
.tK KActivate
with the keyboard focus on the
hypertext link item.
The callback reason is
.Cn DtCR_HELP_LINK_ACTIVATE .
.B DtNhyperLinkCallback
allows applications to
register a callback procedure used to process one of four
hypertext link types:
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%APP_DEFINE ,
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TOPIC ,
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%MAN_PAGE
or
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TEXT_FILE .
For the
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TOPIC ,
the callback is made only when the
.I windowHint
value in the callback structure is
.Cn DtHELP_NEW_WINDOW .
.LI \f3DtNlocationId\fP
.br
Specifies a help topic to display.
Applications reference topics within a help
volume using a location ID.
Location IDs are author-defined at help volume
creation time.
Applications use these location IDs to display the desired help
topic.
The default value for this resource is
.Cn _HOMETOPIC ,
which refers to
the help volume's top level topic.
.B DtNhelpVolume
must be set to the help volume in which the
corresponding location ID resides, and
.B DtNhelpType
must be set to
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%TOPIC .
.LI \f3DtNmanPage\fP
.br
Specifies the system manual page to display in the current
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
This
resource is used when the
.B DtNhelpType
is set to
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%MAN_PAGE .
.LI \f3DtNminimizeButtons\fP
.br
Sets the buttons to the width of the widest button and the height of the
tallest button if
False.
If
True,
button width and height are not modified.
.LI \f3DtNmoreLabelString\fP
.br
Specifies the string label for the More button.
.cdes
.LI \f3DtNpaperSize\fP
.br
Controls the value used in the Help-Print dialog for paper size.
The default value is set to
.Cn DtHELP_PAPERSIZE_LETTER .
Other supported values for this resource are:
.Cn DtHELP_PAPERSIZE_LEGAL ,
.Cn DtHELP_PAPERSIZE_EXECUTIVE,
.Cn DtHELP_PAPERSIZE_A4 ,
.Cn DtHELP_PAPERSIZE_B5 .
.LI \f3DtNprinter\fP
.br
Specifies the printer name used to print within the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
If the value is
.Cn NULL,
the default value is taken from the
.I LPDEST
environment variable.
.cdee
.LI \f3DtNprintLabelString\fP
.br
Specifies the string label for the Print button.
.LI \f3DtNrows\fP
Specifies the number of rows of text to display in the display area of the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
.LI \f3DtNscrollBarPolicy\fP
.br
Controls the automatic placement of scroll bars in the text display area.
If it is set to
.Cn DtHELP_AS_NEEDED_\%SCROLLBARS ,
the scroll bars are displayed only
if the display area exceeds the clip area in one or both dimensions.
A resource
value of
.Cn DtHELP_STATIC_\%SCROLLBARS
causes the display area to display the
scroll bars whenever the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget is managed, regardless of the
relationship between the clip window and the display area.
A value of
.Cn DtHELP_NO_\%SCROLLBARS
removes scroll bars from the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
The default value is
.Cn DtHELP_AS_NEEDED_\%SCROLLBARS .
.LI \f3DtNstringData\fP
.br
Specifies the string data
.RB ( char\ * )
to display in the current
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
This resource is used when the
.B DtNhelpType
is set to
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%STRING .
.LI \f3DtNtopicTitle\fP
.br
Specifies the topic title
.RB ( char\ * )
to be used in conjunction with either the
.B DtNstringData
or
.B DtNhelpFile
resource.
The topic title is required
in order to maintain an accurate and descriptive history list.
The topic title is also used as the default heading for the banner page
and page header when printing.
When printing help topics, this resource may be ignored.
.LE
.HU "Inherited Resources"
The DtHelpQuickDialog widget
inherits behavior and resources from the following named superclasses.
For a complete description of each resource, see the
.cde man page
.xo entry in \*(ZM
for that superclass.
.P
.cde .ne 10
.DS
.S -1
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde expand tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 | l .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 l .
XmBulletinBoard Resource Set
_
Name@Class@Type@Default@Access
_
XmNallowOverlap@XmCAllowOverlap@Boolean@True@CSG
XmNautoUnmanage@XmCAutoUnmanage@Boolean@True@CG
XmNbuttonFontList@XmCButtonFontList@XmFontList@dynamic@CSG
XmNcancelButton@XmCWidget@Widget@dynamic@SG
XmNdefaultButton@XmCWidget@Widget@dynamic@SG
XmNdefaultPosition@XmCDefaultPosition@Boolean@True@CSG
XmNdialogStyle@XmCDialogStyle@unsigned char@dynamic@CSG
XmNdialogTitle@XmCDialogTitle@XmString@NULL@CSG
XmNfocusCallback@XmCCallback@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
XmNlabelFontList@XmCLabelFontList@XmFontList@dynamic@CSG
XmNmapCallback@XmCCallback@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
XmNmarginHeight@XmCMarginHeight@Dimension@10@CSG
XmNmarginWidth@XmCMarginWidth@Dimension@10@CSG
XmNnoResize@XmCNoResize@Boolean@False@CSG
XmNresizePolicy@XmCResizePolicy@unsigned char@XmRESIZE_ANY@CSG
XmNshadowType@XmCShadowType@unsigned char@XmSHADOW_OUT@CSG
XmNtextFontList@XmCTextFontList@XmFontList@dynamic@CSG
XmNtextTranslations@XmCTranslations@XtTranslations@NULL@C
XmNunmapCallback@XmCCallback@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
.TE
.S +1
.DE
.P
.cde .ne 10
.DS
.S -1
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde expand tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 | l .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 l .
XmManager Resource Set
_
Name@Class@Type@Default@Access
_
XmNbottom-@XmCBottom-@Pixel@dynamic@CSG
   ShadowColor@   ShadowColor
XmNbottom-@XmCBottom-@Pixmap@XmUNSPECIFIED-@CSG
   ShadowPixmap@   ShadowPixmap@@   _PIXMAP
XmNforeground@XmCForeground@Pixel@dynamic@CSG
XmNhelpCallback@XmCCallback@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
XmNhighlightColor@XmCHighlightColor@Pixel@dynamic@CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap@XmCHighlightPixmap@Pixmap@dynamic@CSG
XmNinitialFocus@XmCInitialFocus@Widget@dynamic@CSG
XmNnavigationType@XmCNavigationType@XmNavigation-@XmTAB_GROUP@CSG
@@   Type
XmNshadowThickness@XmCShadowThickness@Dimension@dynamic@CSG
XmNstringDirection@XmCStringDirection@XmString-@dynamic@CG
@@   Direction
XmNtopShadowColor@XmCTopShadowColor@Pixel@dynamic@CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap@XmCTopShadowPixmap@Pixmap@dynamic@CSG
XmNtraversalOn@XmCTraversalOn@Boolean@True@CSG
XmNunitType@XmCUnitType@unsigned char@dynamic@CSG
XmNuserData@XmCUserData@XtPointer@NULL@CSG
.TE
.S +1
.DE
.P
.cde .ne 10
.DS
.S -1
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde expand tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 | l .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 l .
Composite Resource Set
_
Name@Class@Type@Default@Access
_
XmNchildren@XmCReadOnly@WidgetList@NULL@G
XmNinsertPosition@XmCInsertPosition@XtOrderProc@NULL@CSG
XmNnumChildren@XmCReadOnly@Cardinal@0@G
.TE
.S +1
.DE
.P
.cde .ne 10
.DS
.S -1
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde expand tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 | l .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 l .
Core Resource Set
_
Name@Class@Type@Default@Access
_
XmNaccelerators@XmCAccelerators@XtAccelerators@dynamic@N/A
XmNancestorSensitive@XmCSensitive@Boolean@dynamic@G
XmNbackground@XmCBackground@Pixel@dynamic@CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap@XmCPixmap@Pixmap@XmUNSPECIFIED-@CSG
@@@   _PIXMAP
XmNborderColor@XmCBorderColor@Pixel@XtDefaultForeground@CSG
XmNborderPixmap@XmCPixmap@Pixmap@XmUNSPECIFIED-@CSG
@@@   _PIXMAP
XmNborderWidth@XmCBorderWidth@Dimension@0@CSG
XmNcolormap@XmCColormap@Colormap@dynamic@CG
XmNdepth@XmCDepth@int@dynamic@CG
XmNdestroyCallback@XmCCallback@XtCallbackList@NULL@C
XmNheight@XmCHeight@Dimension@dynamic@CSG
XmNinitialResources-@XmCInitialResources-@Boolean@True@C
   Persistent@   Persistent
XmNmappedWhen-@XmCMappedWhen-@Boolean@True@CSG
   Managed@   Managed
XmNscreen@XmCScreen@Screen *@dynamic@CG
XmNsensitive@XmCSensitive@Boolean@True@CSG
XmNtranslations@XmCTranslations@XtTranslations@dynamic@CSG
XmNwidth@XmCWidth@Dimension@dynamic@CSG
XmNx@XmCPosition@Position@0@CSG
XmNy@XmCPosition@Position@0@CSG
.TE
.S +1
.DE
.HU "Callback Information"
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback:
.Cs I
typedef struct {
	int	\f2reason\fP;
	XEvent	*\f2event\fP;
	char	*\f2locationId\fP;
	char	*\f2helpVolume\fP;
	char	*\f2specification\fP;
	int	\f2hyperType\fP;
	int	\f2windowHint\fP;
} DtHelpDialogCallbackStruct;
.Ce
.P
The
.I reason
argument
indicates why the callback was invoked.
.P
The
.I event
argument
points to the
.B XEvent
that triggered the callback.
.P
The
.I locationId
argument
indicates the
.B DtNlocationId
for the current topic.
This value is
.Cn NULL
whenever the
.I hyperType
value is not
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TOPIC
or
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_APP_DEFINE .
.P
The
.I helpVolume
argument
indicates the current help volume.
This value returns
.Cn NULL
whenever the
.I hyperType
value is not
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TOPIC
or
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_APP_DEFINE .
.P
The
.I specification
argument
indicates any author-defined data contained within the
selected hypertext link.
This value returns
.Cn NULL
if no author-defined data was given.
For hyperlinks of type
.Cn DtHELP_MAN_PAGE ,
the
.I specification
argument contains the name of the manual page.
For hyperlinks of type
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_TEXT_FILE ,
the
.I specification
argument contains that name of the file.
.P
The
.I hyperType
argument
indicates the hypertext link type.
Possible values are:
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TOPIC ,
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%MAN_PAGE ,
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%APP_DEFINE
or
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%TEXT_FILE .
.P
The
.I windowHint
argument
indicates a hint for the type of window (current window,
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget window or new window) to use.
This value contains one of the following three types:
.Cn DtHELP_POPUP_WINDOW ,
.Cn DtHELP_CURRENT_WINDOW
or
.Cn DtHELP_NEW_WINDOW .
.HU "Additional Behavior"
The
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget has the additional behavior described below:
.VL 6
.LI "\f2<MAny> <KCancel>\fP"
.br
Calls the active callbacks for the Close button.
If a
.I <BDrag>
for
either a selection or scrollbar movement is in process, the
.I KCancel
aborts that action.
.LI "\f2<KSpace>, <KActivate>\fP or \f2<BSelect>\fP in Display Area Text"
.br
Invokes the hypertext link that contains the current selection.
.LI "\f2<DoubleClick>\fP in Display Area Text"
.br
Ignored.
.LI "\f2<BDrag>\fP in Display Area Text"
.br
Selects the text from the drag start point to the drag end point.
Moving and holding the
.I <BDrag>
outside
the topic tree or display area, scrolls the window, selecting the newly
exposed text.
.LI "\f2<Close Button Activated>\fP"
.br
Closes the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget, and calls the
.B DtNcloseCallback
callbacks with reason
.Cn DtCR_HELP_CLOSE .
.LI "\f2<Backtrack Button Activated>\fP"
.br
Forces the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget to display the data previously
displayed in the dialog.
If the current item was the first item
displayed in the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget, the Backtrack button is insensitive.
.LI "\f2<Print Button Activated>\fP"
.br
Forces the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget to display the Help-Print dialog.
.LI "\f2<Help Button Activated>\fP"
.br
Forces the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget to display the Help-On-Help dialog.
.br
.LI "\f2<MCtrl>\fP or \f2<MShift> <BSelect>\fP in Display Area Hypertext Link Text"
.sp -0.4v
.LI "\f2<MCtrl> <KSpace>\fP in Display Area Hypertext Link Text"
.sp -0.4v
.LI "\f2<MCtrl> <KActivate>\fP in Display Area Hypertext Link Text"
.br
Invokes the
.B DtNhyperLinkCallback
for the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget, honoring all existing
link settings, but forces the
.I windowHint
to
.Cn DtHELP_NEW_WINDOW .
If no
.B DtNhyperLinkCallback
was supplied, the hypertext link is handled
internally.
.LI "\f2<KSelectAll>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Selects all text within the display area.
.LI "\f2<KDeSelectAll>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Deselects all text within the display area.
.cdes
.LI "\f2<KUp>\fP or \f2<KLeft>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Moves the traversal highlight up or left to the next hypertext link item.
.LI "\f2<KDown>\fP or \f2<KRight>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Moves the traversal highlight down or right to the next hypertext item.
.cdee
.LI "\f2<KCopy>\fP in the Display Area"
.br
Copies the currently selected text to the clipboard.
.LI "\f2<KPageDown>\fP or \f2<MCtrl> <KDown>\fP in the Display Area"
.br
Displays the next page of text.
.LI "\f2<KPageLeft>\fP or \f2<MCtrl> <KLeft>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Scrolls the information to the left.
.LI "\f2<KPageRight>\fP or \f2<MCtrl> <KRight>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Scrolls the information to the right.
.LI "\f2<KPageUp>\fP or \f2<MCtrl> <KUp>\fP in Display Area"
.br
Displays the previous page of information.
.LI "\f2<KBeginData>\fP in the Display Area"
.br
Displays the first page of information.
.LI "\f2<KEndData>\fP in the Display Area"
.br
Displays the last page of information.
.LE
.xos
.P
The following operations are supported, but the key
bindings are implementation-dependent:
.VL 6
.LI <\f2implementation-dependent\fP>
.br
Moves the traversal highlight up, down, left or right
to the next hypertext link item.
.LE
.xoe
.HU "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are implementation-dependent.
.cde For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see
.cde .Fn VirtualBindings 3X.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget uses two environment variables for locating
help volumes within the desktop environment:
.VL 6
.LI \f2DTHELPSEARCHPATH\fP
.br
The system
search path environment variable for locating
help volumes on local and remote
.cde NFS
mounted systems.
.LI \f2DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH\fP
.br
The search path environment variable for locating user-specific
help volumes on local and remote
.cde NFS
mounted systems.
.LE
.P
The environment variables contain colon-separated lists of directory paths.
Each directory path can contain both environment variable names as well as
special field descriptors that are expanded at runtime.
.P
Field descriptors consist of a percent-sign character (%)
followed by a single character.
Field descriptors and their substitution values are:
.VL 6
.LI \f3%H\fP
Replaced with the current volume name being searched for.
.LI \f3%L\fP
Replaced with the current value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.LI \f3%%\fP
Replaced with a single %.
.LE
.P
The default value for
.I DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH
is:
.Cs I
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H:
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H.sdl:
.cde $HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H.hv:
$HOME/.dt/help/%H:
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl:
.cde $HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv
.Ce
.P
The
.I DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH
is first searched for the requested volume.
If the volume is not found, the
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
value is searched.
.P
The default value for
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
path is:
.Cs I
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.cde /etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H:
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl:
.cde /etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv:
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.cde /usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H:
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl:
.cde /usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv
.Ce
.cdes
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The following messages can be generated as a result of an error or improperly
set resource value in the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget
These messages are
displayed in the widget's display area as well as standard error.
.HU "Error Messages"
.TP 6
\f3String data could not be formatted.\fP
.br
The error occurred when formatting help information of type
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%STRING .
.TP 6
\f3Dynamic string data could not be formatted.\fP
.br
The error occurred when formatting help information of type
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%DYNAMIC_STRING .
.TP 6
\f3Man Page could not be formatted. The requested man page\fP
.PD 0
.TP 6
\f3is either not present, or corrupt.\fP
.br
The error occurred when formatting help information of type
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_\%MAN_PAGE .
.PD
.TP 6
\f3Text file could not be formatted. The requested text file\fP
.PD 0
.TP 6
\f3is either not present, or corrupt.\fP
.br
The error occurred when formatting help information of type
.Cn DtHELP_TYPE_FILE .
.PD
.TP 6
\f3Non-supported DtNhelpType value used.\fP
.br
The application used a non-supported
.BR DtNhelpType .
.TP 6
\f3Help topic could not be formatted.\fP
.br
The application attempted to access a corrupt runtime help file.
.TP 6
\f3No DtNhyperLinkCallback supplied for widget.\fP
.br
A hypertext link of type
.Cn DtHELP_NEW_WINDOW
is selected, but the
application has not supplied a hypertext callback to handle it.
The link is handled like a
.Cn DtHELP_CURRENT_WINDOW
jump.
.TP 6
\f3Nonexistent DtNlocationId.\fP
.br
The requested
.B DtNlocationId
is not present in the current help volume.
.TP 6
\f3No DtNhyperLinkCallback supplied for widget to handle\fP
.PD 0
.TP 6
\f3DtHELP_LINK_APP_DEFINE or DtHELP_LINK_MAN_PAGE links.\fP
.br
A hypertext link of type
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%APP_DEFINE
or
.Cn DtHELP_LINK_\%MAN_PAGE
is selected, but the application has not supplied a hypertext callback.
.PD
.TP 6
\f3Could not find DtNhelpVolume.\fP
.br
The Help System is unable to find the help volume requested.
.TP 6
\f3Could not open DtNhelpVolume.\fP
.br
The Help System found the requested help volume, but does not have the
permission to open it.
.cdee
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/HelpDialog.h 5,
.Hd Dt/Help.h 5,
.Fn DtCreateHelpDialog 3,
.Fn DtHelpSetCatalogName 3,
.Fn DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild 3;
.cdes
.Fn XmManager 3X,
.Fn XmBulletinBoard 3X,
.Fn Core 3X,
.Fn Composite 3X,
.Fn Constraint 3X,
.Fn VirtualBindings 3X,
.IR dthelptagdtd (4).
.cdee
.xos
.I XmManager
and
.I XmBulletinBoard
in the \*(ZM;
.cX dthelptagdtd .
.xoe
