.TH DtHelpSetCatalogName 3 "11 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtHelpSetCatalogName \- assign the name of the message catalog to use for help services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Help.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Void DtHelpSetCatalogName('u
void DtHelpSetCatalogName(char *\f2catFile\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtHelpSetCatalogName
function provides an interface for applications to set
the name of the message catalog file that the
help services library uses at runtime.
This message catalog contains all
strings, messages and button labels used in the help widgets
that can be localized.
.P
The
.I catFile
argument specifies the name of the message catalog file that
the help services library accesses at runtime.
See
.Fn catopen 3C
for more information on the message catalog naming and location semantics for
various environments.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtHelpSetCatalogName
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtHelpSetCatalogName
function is only required if applications deliver localized online help
information into a non-localized Cde desktop environment.
In this case,
applications must use this function and give the help message
catalog file a unique name in order to avoid collision with other clients
using and localizing their online-help user interface.
In order for this call to properly affect the help services library,
this call must be
made prior to creation of any help widgets.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Help.h 5,
.Fn DtCreateHelpQuickDialog 3,
.Fn DtCreateHelpDialog 3;
.cde .Fn catopen 3C.
.xos
.Fn catopen
in the \*(ZK.
.xoe
