.TH DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild 3 "11 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild \- get child of DtHelpQuickDialog widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/HelpQuickD.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Widget DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild('u
Widget DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	int \f2child\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild
function accesses a component within a
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget instance.
.P
The
.I child
argument specifies which
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget child the widget ID is for.
The following are valid values for the
.I child
argument:
.Cs I
.Cn DtHELP_QUICK_CLOSE_BUTTON
.Cn DtHELP_QUICK_PRINT_BUTTON
.Cn DtHELP_QUICK_HELP_BUTTON
.Cn DtHELP_QUICK_SEPARATOR
.Cn DtHELP_QUICK_MORE_BUTTON
.Cn DtHELP_QUICK_BACK_BUTTON
.Ce
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild
function returns the widget ID of the requested child of the
DtHelpQuickDialog
widget; otherwise, it returns
.Cn NULL
if either the function call fails, or an invalid value was passed in for
the
.I child
argument.
.cdes
.P
If an invalid child type is given,
a warning message is generated:
``Non-valid Quick Help child type.''
.cdee
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/HelpQuickD.h 5,
.Fn DtCreateHelpQuickDialog 3;
.cde .Fn XmWarning 3X.
.xos
.I XmWarning
in the \*(ZM.
.xoe
