.\" **
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **
.TH DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild 3X "11 Jan 1994"
.BH "11 Jan 1994"
.SH NAME
DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild  \- a convenience function for getting and managing
quick help dialog children.
.iX "DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild"
.iX "get child function" "DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/HelpDialogQ.h>
.br
.sp .5
Widget DtHelpQuickDialogGetChild (\fIwidget, child\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
        Widget   \fIwidget\fP;
.br
        int      \fIchild\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtHelpQuickDialogGetChild\fP is used to access a component within a quick
help dialog. The parameters given to the function are the quick Help Dialog 
widget and a value indicating which child to access.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .85i
Specifies the quick help dialog instance you are working with
.IP "\fIchild\fP" .85i
Specifies quick help dialog child you want the widget ID for. The following 
are legal values for this parameter:
·	\fBDtHELP_QUICK_OK_BUTTON\fP
·	\fBDtHELP_QUICK_PRINT_BUTTON\fP
·	\fBDtHELP_QUICK_HELP_BUTTON\fP
·	\fBDtHELP_QUICK_SEPARATOR\fP
·	\fBDtHELP_QUICK_MORE_BUTTON\fP
·	\fBDtHELP_QUICK_BACK_BUTTON\fP
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Returns the widget ID of the requested quick help dialog child, or NULL if 
either the function call fails, or an invalid value was passed in for the
child 
parameter.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If an invalid child type is given, an \fBXmWarning()\fP message will be generated:
"Non-valid Quick Help child type"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCreateQuickHelpDialog(3X),
.BR "CDE Help System Authors and Programmers Guide"










