.\" **
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **
.TH DtHelpSetCatalogName 3 "11 Jan 1994"
.BH "11 Jan 1994"
.SH NAME
DtHelpSetCatalogName  \- assigns the name of the message catalog to use for
libDtHelp.[sl/a].
.iX "DtHelpSetCatalogName"
.iX "set catalog name" "DtHelpSetCatalogName"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Help.h>
.br
.sp .5
Void DtHelpSetCatalogName (\fIcatFile\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
        char   \fI*catFile\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtHelpSetCatalogName\fP is a utility function that provides developers 
an interface for setting the name of the message catalog file to be used by
libDtHelp.[a/sl] at runtime. This message catalog contains all localizable
strings, messages, and button labels used in the help widgets.
.IP "\fIcatFile\fP" .85i
Specifies the name of the message catalog file to be accessed by 
libDtHelp.[a/sl] at runtime. See
.I catopen(3C)
for more information on the message catalog naming and location semantics for
your environment.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
none
.SH "USAGE"
\fBDtHelpSetCatalogName\fP associates the proper message catalog file 
to be used in conjunction with the libDtHelp.[sl/a]. This allows developers
to localize strings, messages, and button labels used within the help 
widgets. This function is only required if developers localize their 
components, and wish to also provide localized help messages.  In this case,
it's critical that they use this function and give their help message 
catalog file a unique name in order to avoid collision with other clients 
using and localizing their online help user interface.  Refer to
the 
.I Cde Help System Authors and Programmers Guide 
for more information on localization of the online help information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCreateQuickHelpDialog(3),
.BR DtCreateHelpDialog(3)
