.\" **
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **
.TH DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId 3 "11 Jan 1994"
.BH "11 Jan 1994"
.SH NAME
DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId  \- a convenience function for end user 
selection of a widget or gadget.
.iX "DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId"
.iX "select object function" "DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/Help.h>
.br
.sp .5
int DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId (\fIparent, cursor, widget\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
        Widget   \fIparent\fP;
.br
        String   \fIcursor\fP;
.br
        Widget   \fIwidget\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId\fP is a utility function that provides an
interface for selection of a component within an application. This function 
grabs the pointer and returns the widget within which a button press occurs. 
Pressing the ESC key will abort this function.
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the widget ID to use as the basis of the interaction, usually a top
level shell.
.IP "\fIcursor\fP" .75i
Specifies the cursor to be used for the pointer during the interaction. If a 
value of NULL is used, this function will use a default cursor value.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
This is the return value (e.g. selected widget). A value of NULL is returned 
on error.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
The function returns a status value of:
.IP "\fBDtHELP_SELECT_ERROR\fP"
A return status of \fBDtHELP_SELECT_ERROR\fP informs the calling routine that
an error occurred while attempting to process the function.
.IP "\fBDtHELP_SELECT_INVALID\fP"
A return status of \fBDtHELP_SELECT_INVALID\fP informs the calling routine 
that the user selected an invalid component that is not contained 
in the current widget hierarchy. 
.IP "\fBDtHELP_SELECT_ABORT\fP"
A return status of \fBDtHELP_SELECT_ABORT\fP informs the calling routine that
the user aborted the function (e.g. press'ed the `esc' key), and a null 
`widget' value is passed back.
.IP "\fBDtHELP_SELECT_VALID\fP"
A return status of \fBDtHELP_SELECT_VALID\fP informs the calling routine that
the user selected a valid component within the application, and the `widget' 
parameter is the ID of the selected component.
.PP
.SH USAGE
\fBDtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId\fP allows developers to get the widget ID for 
any widget in their user interface that the user has selected via the 
pointer. The application then has the opportunity to directly display a 
help topic based on the selected widget or dynamically 
construct some help information based on the current context of the selected
item. At any point while the question mark cursor is displayed the user can
select the escape key (ESC) to abort the function call. If the user selects any
item outside the current applications window(s) an error status will be 
returned along with a null value for the widget parameter.
Refer to the OSF/Motif 1.2 XmTrackingLocate() for a similar function.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
See \fBRETURN VALUES\fP above for a description of possible error return
conditions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCreateQuickHelpDialog(3),
.BR DtCreateHelpDialog(3)










