.TH DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId 3 "11 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId \- select a widget or gadget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Help.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w' int DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId('u
int DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId(Widget \f2parent\fP,
	String \f2cursor\fP,
	Widget *\f2widget\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId
function provides an
interface for users to select a component within an application.
.P
This function
grabs the pointer and returns the widget within which a button press occurs.
Pressing the escape key (ESC) aborts this function.
.P
The
.I parent
argument specifies the widget ID to use as the basis
of the interaction, usually a top level shell.
.P
The
.I cursor
argument specifies the cursor to be used for the pointer
during the interaction.
If a
.Cn NULL
value is used,
.Fn DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId
uses a default cursor value.
.P
The
.I widget
argument is the return value (for example, the
selected widget).
A
.Cn NULL
value is returned on error.
.P
The
.Fn DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId
function allows applications to get the widget ID for
any widget in their user interface that the user has selected via the
pointer.
The application can then directly display a
help topic based on the selected widget, or dynamically
construct some help information based on the current context of the selected
item.
At any point while the question mark cursor is displayed, the user can
select the escape key to abort the function call, and a
.Cn NULL
value is returned.
If the user selects any
item outside the current applications windows, an error status is
returned along with a
.Cn NULL
value for the
.I widget
argument.
.cdes
Refer to the OSF/Motif 1.2
.Fn XmTrackingLocate 3X
for a similar function.
.cdee
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtHelpReturnSelectedWidgetId
function returns one of the following status values:
.VL 6
.Lc DtHELP_SELECT_ERROR
.br
An error occurred while attempting to process the function.
.Lc DtHELP_SELECT_INVALID
.br
The user selected an invalid component that is not contained
in the current widget hierarchy.
.Lc DtHELP_SELECT_ABORT
.br
The user aborted the function (for example, pressed the escape key), and a
.Cn NULL
widget value is passed back.
.Lc DtHELP_SELECT_VALID
.br
The user selected a valid component within the application, and the
.I widget
argument is the ID of the selected component.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Help.h 5,
.Fn DtCreateHelpQuickDialog 3,
.Fn DtCreateHelpDialog 3;
.cde .Fn XmTrackingLocate 3X,
.xos
.Fn XmTrackingLocate
in the \*(ZM.
.xoe
