.TH DtInitialize 3X "28 Feb 1994"
.BH "28 Feb - 1994"
.SH NAME
DtInitialize, DtAppInitialize \- initialize the Desktop Services library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <Dt/Dt.h>
.sp .6v
Boolean DtInitialize(
	Display *display,
	Widget topLevel,
	String appName,
	String appClass)

Boolean DtAppInitialize(
	XtAppContext appContext,
	Display *display,
	Widget topLevel,
	String appName,
	String appClass)
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"---
.\"--- The _1st_index_term_ and _2nd_index_term_ will appear in the manual
.\"--- index.  _format_of_1st_ and _format_of_2nd_ specify formatting for
.\"--- these index entries.
.\"---
.IX "DtInitialize" "DtAppInitialize" "_format_of_1st_" "_format_of_2nd_"
.LP
These functions perform the one-time initialization in the 
Desktop Services library.
Applications must call either
.I DtInitialize
or
.I DtAppInitialize
before calling any other Desktop Services library routines.
.LP
The difference between these two functions is whether
.I appContext
is specified.
.I DtInitialize
uses the default Intrinsic
.I XtAppContext.
.SS Parameters
.TP 15
.I appContext
is the application context.
.TP 15
.I display
is the X display connection.
.TP 15
.I topLevel
is the application's top-level Widget.
.TP 15
.I appName
is the application name.
.TP 15
.I appClass
is the application class.
.PD
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, returns \fBTRUE\fP if the library has been
correctly initialized. Otherwise, returns \fBFALSE\fP if the library
could not be correctly initialized.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR XtAppInitialize (3X).
.BR XtToolkitInitialize (3X).
.BR XtCreateApplicationContext (3X).
.SH COPYRIGHT
.LP
(c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc.
