.TH DtInitialize 3 "28 Feb 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtInitiali\&ze, DtAppInitiali\&ze \(em initialize the Desktop Services library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dt.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtInitialize('u
Boolean DtInitialize(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2name\fP,
	char *\f2tool_class\fP)
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtAppInitialize('u
Boolean DtAppInitialize(XtAppContext \f2app_context\fP,
	Display *\f2display\fP,
	Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2name\fP,
	char *\f2tool_class\fP)
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions perform the one-time initialization in the
Desktop Services library.
Applications must call either
.Fn DtInitialize
or
.Fn DtAppInitialize
before calling any other Desktop Services library routines.
.P
The difference between these two functions is whether
.I app_context
is specified.
.Fn DtInitialize
uses the default Intrinsic
.IR XtAppContext .
.P
The
.I app_context
argument is the application context,
.I display
is the X display connection,
.I widget
is the application's top-level Widget,
.I name
is the application name and
.I tool_class
is the application class.
.br
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion,
.Fn DtAppInitialize
and
.Fn DtInitialize
return True if the library has been
correctly initialized;
otherwise, they return False.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Dt.h 5;
.Fn XtAppInitialize 3X,
.Fn XtToolkitInitialize 3X,
.cde .Fn XtCreateApplicationContext 3X.
.xo .Fn XtCreateApplicationContext
.xo in the \*(Zt.
