.TH DtSaverGetWindows 3 "24 Jul 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtSaverGetWindows \- get the list of windows for drawing by a screen saver application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Saver.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtSaverGetWindows('u
Boolean DtSaverGetWindows(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window **\f2window\fP,
	int *\f2count\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtSaverGetWindows
function returns a list of windows on which a screen saver
application should draw when invoked by Cde.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
The
.I window
argument is the address of
a pointer to receive the pointer to a list of windows.
The
.I count
argument is the address of an integer to receive the
number of elements in the list of windows returned in
.IR window .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtSaverGetWindows
function returns True;
otherwise, it returns False.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtSaverGetWindows
function is not successful, failure may be due to a memory
allocation error or that the screen
saver application was not invoked from Cde.
.P
The application must use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free data returned in \f2*window\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Saver.h 5;
.cde .Fn XtFree 3X.
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt.
.xoe
