...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtSaverGetWindows 3 "24 Jul 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtSaverGetWindows(3) \(em  the API to obtain the list of windows on which
a screen saver application should draw when invoked by the Desktop. 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Saver.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean DtSaverGetWindows (
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Display *    \fldisplay\fP,
	Window **    \flwindows\fP,
	int *        \flcount\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtSaverGetWindows\fP returns a list of windows on which a screen saver
application should draw when invoked by the Desktop. The display parameter is
the application's display connection. The windows parameter is a pointer to
memory in which the pointer to the list of windows shall be returned. The
count parameter is a pointer to memory in which the window count shall be 
returned. When the return code is True, the API has returned valid information 
in the windows and count parameters. When the return code is False, the API 
is indicating that the window list could not be obtained. A return code of
False is an indication that the screen saver application was not invoked
by the Desktop, but rather by another means, such as the command line.
.P
.IP \fIdisplay\fP
Specifies the application's display connection. 
.IP \fIwindow\fP
Returns the list of windows on which a screen saver application should draw.
.IP \fIcount\fP
Returns the window list count.
.P
\fBNOTE:\fP The \fBwindows\fP value is malloc'd by this
routine, and the memory for it needs to be freed using \fBfree()\fP.
.P
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RETURN VALUES
.P
Upon successful completion, returns \fBTrue\fP if window list and count could
be obtained. The memory pointer to by window should be freed by \fBfree()\fP.
Otherwise, returns \fBFalse\fP if the window list could not be obtained 
or the memory allocated.
.P
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function does not return error codes.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.sp
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"--- .BR  \fBDtSessionRestorePath(3)\fP

