...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtSessionSavePath 3 "17 Feb 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtSessionSavePath(3) \(em  the API to save session information to a path that
can be used for restoring the client to the same state at a later time by
DtSessionRestorePath(3) call.
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Session.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean DtSessionSavePath (
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget	     \fIwidget\fP,
	char **	     \fIsavePath\fP,
	char **	     \fIsaveFile\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtSessionSavePath\fP returns a path for an application to save session 
information to. The information is later used to restore the application to the 
state it was last in when the session is restored. SavePath is the fully 
qualified path of the file. SaveFile is the file name only , which is saved on 
the command line using a -session option (by convention). An application program
, using this interface, is expected to recognize the -session command line 
option. The filename obtained from the -session option is provided to the 
DtSessionRestorePath() call, on session startup, to get the full path of the 
file to restore from.

.P
.IP \fIwidget\fP
Specifies the application's top level widget.
.IP \fIsavePath\fP
Returns the path for the application to save to.
.IP \fIsaveFile\fP
Returns the file name to be saved in -session.
.P
\fBNOTE:\fP The \fBsavePath\fP and \fBsaveFile\fP values are malloc'd by these 
routines, and the memory for them needs to be freed using \fBXtFree()\fP.
.P
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RETURN VALUES
.P
Upon successful completion, returns \fBTRUE\fP if the path has been created and 
the memory allocated. Otherwise, returns \fBFALSE\fP if the path could not be 
created or the memory allocated.
.P
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function does not return error codes.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.sp
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  \fBDtSessionRestorePath(3)\fP

