.TH DtSessionRestorePath 3 "17 Feb 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtSessionRestorePath \- get a pathname for the application's state information file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Session.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtSessionRestorePath('u
Boolean DtSessionRestorePath(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char **\f2restorePath\fP,
	char *\f2restoreFile\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtSessionRestorePath
function returns a pathname to an
application's state information.
.P
The
.I widget
argument is
the application's top level widget.
The
.I restorePath
argument is the address of the character string to receive
the pathname of the application's state information file.
The
.I restoreFile
argument is the filename of the file containing the application
state information.
This is the filename specified with the
.B \-session
option at application invocation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtSessionRestorePath
function returns True;
otherwise, it returns False.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application must support the
.B \-session
command-line option.
.P
The application must use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free data returned in *\f2restorePath\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Session.h 5,
.Fn DtSessionSavePath 3;
.cde .Fn XtFree 3X.
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt;
\*(Zi.
.xoe
