.TH DtSessionSavePath 3 "17 Feb 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtSessionSavePath \- get a pathname for saving application state information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Session.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtSessionSavePath('u
Boolean DtSessionSavePath(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char **\f2savePath\fP,
	char **\f2saveFile\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtSessionSavePath
function returns the pathname to be used by an application for
saving its state information.
The information is later used by the
application to restore its state.
.P
The
.I widget
argument is
the application's top level widget.
The
.I savePath
argument is the address of the character string to receive
the pathname of the state information file to be used by
the application for storing its state.
The
.I saveFile
argument is the address of the character string to receive
the filename of the file to be used by the application for
storing its state.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtSessionSavePath
function returns True;
otherwise, it returns False.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should add
.B \-session
.I saveFile
when it updates its
.Cn WM_COMMAND
property.
.P
The application must use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free data returned in *\f2savePath\fP and *\f2saveFile\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Session.h 5,
.Fn DtSessionRestorePath 3;
.cde .Fn XtFree 3X.
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt;
\*(Zi.
.xoe
