...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---
.\".TH _title _#S_ "_dd_ _Month_ _19yy_"
.TH DtSessionRestorePath 3 "17 Feb 1994"
.\".BH "_dd_ _Month_ -_19yy_"
.BH \*(DT 
.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
DtSessionRestorePath(3) \(em  - the API to restore the client to the state 
saved before by DtSessionSavePath(3) call.

.\"---
.\"---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  Use the following lines for pages in
.\"--- manual Sections 1, 1M, 5 and 8:
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Dt/Session.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean DtSessionRestorePath (
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget	     \fIwidget\fP,
	char **	     \fIrestorePath\fP,
	char **	     \fIrestoreFile\fP)
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command (function, device or
.\"--- file format) does and includes the parameter list. 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtSessionRestorePath\fP DtSessionRestorePath returns a path for an 
application to restore session information from. RestorePath is the fully 
qualified path of the file. RestoreFile is the file name only, which 
was saved on the command line using a -session option at shutdown and is 
provided to the DtSessionRestorePath() call.
.P
.IP \fIwidget\fP
Specifies the application's top level widget.
.IP \fIrestorePath\fP
Returns the path for the application to restore from.
.IP \fIrestoreFile\fP
Provides the file name to be restored from. (This is the name 
obtained from the -session option at client invocation.)
.P
\fBNOTE:\fP The \fBrestorePath\fP and \fBrestoreFile\fP values are malloc'd 
by these routines, and the memory for them needs to be freed using 
\fBXtFree()\fP.
.P
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- RETURN VALUES
.\"--- This section appears in pages from Sections 2 and 3 only.
.\"--- List the _values_ that the function returns and give _explanations_.
.\"---
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RETURN VALUES
.P
Upon successful completion, returns \fBTRUE\fP if the path has been created and 
the memory allocated. Otherwise, returns \fBFALSE\fP if the path could not be 
created or the memory allocated.
.P
.\"---
.\"--- ERRORS
.\"--- This section lists and explains _ERROR-CODES_ that the function may
.\"--- may generate.  List _ERROR-CODES_ alphabetically.
.\"---
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function does not return error codes.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- EXAMPLES
.\"--- This section gives examples of how to use the command (function
.\"--- or file format).  Always preface an example with an introduction.
.\"--- If there are multiple examples, use separate subsection headings
.\"--- for each _example-type_.  Otherwise, omit these headings.
.\"---
.sp
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"--- This section lists references to other man pages, sample files, etc.
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  \fBDtSessionSavePath(3)\fP

