.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Interleaf, Inc.
.\" **
.\" ** Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" ** documentation for any purpose without fee is granted, provided that
.\" ** the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both copyright
.\" ** notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
.\" ** and that the name of Interleaf not be used in advertising or publicly
.\" ** pertaining to distribution of the software without specific written
.\" ** prior permission.
.\" ** 
.\" ** Interleaf makes no representation about the suitability of this
.\" ** software for any purpose. It is provided "AS IS" without any express
.\" ** or implied warranty.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH DtSpinBoxSetItem 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBDtSpinBoxSetItem \- set an item in the DtSpinBox list.\fP
.iX "DtSpinBoxSetItem"
.iX "DtSpinBox functions" "DtSpinBoxSetItem"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/SpinBox.h>
.sp .5
void DtSpinBoxSetItem (
.br
.ta 0.75i 2i
	DtSpinBoxWidget	\fIw\fP,
.br
	XmString	\fIitem\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtSpinBoxSetItem\fP selects an item in the list of the given DtSpinBox
widget and makes it the current value.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIw\fP" .75i
Specifies the DtSpinBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIitem\fP" .75i
Specifies the XmString for the item in the DtSpinBox to set.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of DtSpinBox and its associated resources, see
\fBDtSpinBox(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtSpinBox(3X)\fP,
\fBDtSpinBoxAddItem(3X)\fP, and
\fBDtSpinBoxDeletePos(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
