.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Interleaf, Inc.
.\" **
.\" ** Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" ** documentation for any purpose without fee is granted, provided that
.\" ** the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both copyright
.\" ** notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
.\" ** and that the name of Interleaf not be used in advertising or publicly
.\" ** pertaining to distribution of the software without specific written
.\" ** prior permission.
.\" ** 
.\" ** Interleaf makes no representation about the suitability of this
.\" ** software for any purpose. It is provided "AS IS" without any express
.\" ** or implied warranty.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH DtSpinBoxDeletePos 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBDtSpinBoxDeletePos \- delete a DtSpinBox item.\fP
.iX "DtSpinBoxDeletePos"
.iX "DtSpinBox functions" "DtSpinBoxDeletePos"
.sp .5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Dt/SpinBox.h>
.sp .5
void DtSpinBoxDeletePos (
.br
.ta 0.75i 2i
	DtSpinBoxWidget	\fIw\fP,
.br
	int	\fIpos\fP)
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtSpinBoxDeletePos\fP deletes a specified item from a DtSpinBox widget.
.sp .5
.IP "\fIw\fP" .75i
Specifies the DtSpinBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIpos\fP" .75i
Specifies the position of the item to be deleted. 
Value 1 means the 1st item in the list and 0 mean the last one.
.sp .5
.PP
For a complete definition of DtSpinBox and its associated resources, see
\fBDtSpinBox(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBDtSpinBox(3X)\fP,
\fBDtSpinBoxAddItem(3X)\fP, and
\fBDtSpinBoxSetItem(3X)\fP.
.sp .5
