.TH DtTermSubprocReap 3 "21 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtTermSubprocReap \- allow a DtTerm widget to clean up after subprocess termination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Term.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtTermSubprocReap('u
void DtTermSubprocReap(pid_t \f2pid\fP,
	int *\f2stat_loc\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap
function allows DtTerm widgets to function correctly
in applications that have installed a
.Cn SIGCHLD
signal handler.
.P
The
.I pid
argument specifies the process ID of the child process
.Fn wait 2
returns.
.P
The
.I stat_loc
argument specifies the termination information
.Fn wait 2
returns.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap
function allows an application to install its own
.Cn SIGCHLD
signal handler.
.P
The application must install its own
.Cn SIGCHILD
signal handler and call
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap
if the DtTerm widget was created with the
.B DtSubprocessTerminatorCatch
resource set to
.Cn False .
.P
The application must call the
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap
function after performing a
.Fn wait 2
(or associated function) on a terminated child process.
If the child process is associated with a DtTerm
widget, the widget's data structures are cleaned
up and the associated callbacks invoked.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Term.h 5,
.xo .IR DtTerm ;
.cde .IR DtTerm (3);
.cde .BR signal (5),
.cde .Fn wait 2.
.xos
.Fn sigaction ,
.Fn wait
in the \*(ZK.
.xoe
