.TH DtTermDisplaySend 3 "21 Apr 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtTermDisplaySend \- send data to a DtTerm widget's display
.iX "DtTermDisplaySend"
.iX "widget functions" "DtCreateTerm"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Term.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtTermDisplaySend('u 
void DtTermDisplaySend(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	unsigned char \f2*buffer\fP,
	int \f2length\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend 
function sends data to a \f3DtTerm\fP widget's display.
.P
The \f2widget\fP argument specifies the \f3DtTerm\fP widget ID.
The \f2buffer\fP argument specifies the string (single- or multi-byte depending on the locale)
to be sent to the display.
The string may contain
.Cn NULL
bytes.
The \f2length\fP argument specifies the length of \f2buffer\fP in bytes.
.P
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend
allows the program to write text directly to the
\f3DtTerm\fP widget's text display.
The text is handled in the same
manner as text received from the child process.
Before the text is written in the window, the \f3DtTerm\fP widget's input
parser processes it.
.P
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The 
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend 
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Hd Dt/Term.h 5.
.xo .Hd Dt/Term.h .

