.TH DtTermDisplaySend 3 "21 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtTermDisplaySend \- send data to a DtTerm widget's display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Term.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtTermDisplaySend('u
void DtTermDisplaySend(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	unsigned char \f2*buffer\fP,
	int \f2length\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend
function sends data to a DtTerm widget's display.
.P
The
.I widget
argument specifies the DtTerm widget ID.
.P
The
.I buffer
argument specifies the string (single- or multi-byte depending on the locale)
to be sent to the display.
The string may contain
.Cn NULL
bytes.
.P
The
.I length
argument specifies the length of
.I buffer
in bytes.
.P
The
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend
function
allows the program to write text directly to the
DtTerm widget's text display.
The text is handled in the same
manner as text received from the child process.
Before the text is written in the window,
the DtTerm widget's input parser processes it.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The
.Fn DtTermDisplaySend
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Term.h 5,
.xo .IR DtTerm .
.cde .IR DtTerm (3).
