.TH DtTermSubprocReap 3 "21 Apr 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtTermSubprocReap \- allow a DtTerm widget to clean up after subprocess termination
.iX "DtCreateTerm"
.iX "creation functions" "DtCreateTerm"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Term.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Widget DtTermSubprocReap('u
Widget DtTermSubprocReap(pid_t \f2pid\fP,
	int \f2stat_loc\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap 
function allows \fBDtTerm\fP widgets to function correctly
in applications that have installed a \f3SIGCHLD\fP signal handler.
.P
The \f2pid\fP argument specifies the process ID of the child process 
\f3wait(2)\fP
returns.
The \f2stat_loc\fP argument specifies the termination information 
\f3wait(2)\fP
returns.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The 
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap 
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap 
function allows an application to install its own \f3SIGCHLD\fP signal handler.
The application must call the 
.Fn DtTermSubprocReap 
function after performing a 
\f3wait(2)\fP
(or associated function) on a terminated child process.
If the child process is associated with a
\f3DtTerm\fP widget, the widget's data structures are cleaned
up and the associated callbacks invoked.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Hd Dt/Term.h 5.
.xo .Hd Dt/Term.h .




