.TH DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions \- add workspace functions for a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions('u
void DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2window\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions
function enables workspace functions for a
window.
When workspace functions are enabled, the default window menu for the
window displayed by the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
shows entries that allow the window to occupy a different
set of workspaces, occupy all workspaces, or be removed from the current
workspace.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I window
argument is the window to have its workspace functions enabled.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application must call the
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions
function before mapping the window.
The
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
only looks at the workspace function information at the time the workspace
manager manages the window.
If the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is currently managing the window, the application must withdraw
the window
(see
.Fn XWithdrawWindow 3X),
add the workspace functions, and map the window once again.
.P
By default, the workspace manager enables workspace functions.
.P
The application should call
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceFunctions
to restore the workspace functions removed by the
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions 3
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cde .Fn XWithdrawWindow 3X,
.xos
.Fn XWithdrawWindow 3X
in the \*(Zl;
.xoe
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions 3.
