.TH DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions \- remove a window's workspace functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions('u
void DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2window\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions
function removes a window's workspace functions.
When
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions
removes workspace functions, the window menu for
the window the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
displays does not have the entries that allow the window to occupy a different
set of workspaces, occupy all workspaces, or be removed from the
current workspace.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I window
argument is the window to have its workspace functions
disabled.
.br
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application must call
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceFunctions
before the window is mapped.
The
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
only looks at the workspace function information at the time the
workspace manager manages the window.
If the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is managing the window, the application must withdraw the window
(see
.Fn XWithdrawWindow 3X),
remove the workspace functions, and map the window once again.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.xos
.Fn XWithdrawWindow 3X
in the \*(Zl;
.xos
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5.
