.TH DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace \- set the current workspace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Status DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace('u
Status DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	Atom \f2aWorkspace\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and sets the current workspace.
Applications can use this function to switch from the current
workspace to another workspace.
.P
The
.I widget
argument is a realized widget on the screen of interest.
.P
The
.I aWorkspace
argument is the name (in X atom form) of the workspace
to be made current.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace
function returns Success; otherwise, it returns a value not equal to Success.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace
function
is not successful, the most likely reason for failure is that the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is not running.
The
.Fn DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace
function requires a
widget.
A gadget is not acceptable for the
.I widget
argument.
.P
.Fn DtWsmSetCurrentWorkspace
sends a message to the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
to switch workspaces.
If the workspace name is not valid, no action is taken and the workspace
manager reports no error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace 3.
