.TH DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied \- get the workspaces in which a window resides
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Status DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied('u
Status DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2window\fP,
	Atom **\f2ppaWorkspaces\fP,
	int *\f2pNumWs\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and returns the list of workspaces in which this window resides.
Each element of the list is the name of a workspace (converted to an X atom).
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I window
argument is the window of interest.
.P
The
.I *ppaWorkspaces
argument is the address of a pointer to receive the pointer to
a list of workspace names (converted to X atoms).
.P
The
.I pNumWs
argument is the address of an integer to receive the number
of elements in the list of workspaces returned in
.IR *ppaWorkspaces .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied
function returns Success and the workspace manager returns in
.I *ppaWorkspaces
a list of atoms identifying the
occupied workspaces, and returns in
.I pNumWs
the number of occupied
workspaces; otherwise, it returns a value not equal to Success.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspacesOccupied
function
is not successful, failure may be due to a memory allocation error or
failure to find the correct workspace information (that is, the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is not running).
The application must use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free data returned in
.IR *ppaWorkspaces .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cde .Fn XtFree 3X,
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt.
.xoe
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1.
.cdee
