.TH DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow \- get the backdrop window for the current workspace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Window DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow('u
Window DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2root\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and returns the window used as the backdrop for the current workspace.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I root
argument is the root window of the screen of interest.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow
returns the window used as the backdrop for the current workspace.
The function returns
None if there is no backdrop window for the workspace or if the
.cde Cde
workspace manager is not running.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentBackdropWindow
function is not successful, failure may be due to a memory allocation error or
failure to find the correct workspace information (that is, the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is not running).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace 3,
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo 3.
