.TH DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback 3 "20 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback \- add a callback to be called when any workspace is changed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback('u
DtWsmCBContext
DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	DtWsmWsModifiedProc \f2ws_change\fP,
	Pointer \f2client_data\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and registers a function to be called when a workspace is added,
deleted or modified.
.P
The
.I widget
argument is a realized widget.
.P
The
.I ws_change
argument is the procedure to be called when a workspace is
modified.
.P
The
.I client_data
argument points to arbitrary client data to be
passed back to
.IR ws_change .
.P
The
header defines the
.B DtWsmWsModifiedProc
callback prototype as follows:
.br
.Cs I
.ta \w'typedef void (*DtWsmWsModifiedProc)('u
typedef void (*DtWsmWsModifiedProc)(Widget \f2widget\fP,
	Atom \f2aWorkspace\fP,
	DtWsmWsReason \f2reason\fP,
	Pointer \f2client_data\fP);
.Ce
.P
The
.I widget
argument is the ID of the widget to be registered with the callback.
.P
The
.I aWorkspace
argument is the name of the new current workspace
(converted to an X atom).
.P
The
.I reason
argument is a type of modification:
.VL 6
.Lc DtWSM_REASON_ADD
.br
A new workspace was added.
.Lc DtWSM_REASON_BACKDROP
.br
The backdrop for the workspace changed.
.Lc DtWSM_REASON_CURRENT
.br
A different workspace was made the current workspace.
.Lc DtWSM_REASON_DELETE
.br
A workspace was deleted.
.Lc DtWSM_REASON_TITLE
.br
The workspace title changed.
.LE
.P
The
.I client_data
argument points to the client data to be
registered with the callback.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback
function returns a workspace callback registration context.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback
function returns a registration context that the application
must save in order to remove this callback later.
.P
.Fn DtWsmAddWorkspaceModifiedCallback
requires a window; thus, a gadget is not acceptable for the
.I widget
argument.
.P
The
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceCallback 3
function needs a registration context to remove the callback.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo 3,
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceList 3,
.Fn DtWsmRemoveWorkspaceCallback 3.
