.TH DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo 3 "20 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo \- get detailed workspace information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Status DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo('u
Status DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2root\fP,
	Atom \f2aWorkspace\fP,
	DtWsmWorkspaceInfo **\f2ppWsInfo\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and returns detailed information on a specific workspace.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I root
argument is the root window of the screen of interest.
.P
The
.I aWorkspace
argument is the workspace name (converted to an X atom).
.P
The
.I *ppWsInfo
argument is the address of a variable to receive the
returned pointer to the workspace information data.
.P
The
.B DtWsmWorkspaceInfo
structure contains at least the following members:
.br
.ne 6v
.TS
tab(@);
.xo  lf5 lf5 1 lw(3i) .
.cde lf3 lf2 lw(3.25i) .
Atom@workspace@T{
.na
The workspace name (converted to an X atom).
T}
unsigned long@bg@T{
.na
The pixel ID used for the background color of the backdrop.
T}
unsigned long@fg@T{
.na
The pixel ID used for the foreground color of the backdrop.
T}
Atom@backdropName@T{
.na
The backdrop file name (converted to an X atom).
The file must be in either X Bitmap file format (with extension
\f3\&.bm\fP)
or X Pixmap file format (with extension
\f3\&.pm\fP).
The workspace management services look for the file
along the same path used for searching icons.
The directory
\f3/usr/dt/backdrops\fP
is the default directory if the
file cannot be found along the icon search path.
T}
int@colorSetId@T{
.na
The colorset number used for this workspace, which affects the backdrop
color and the button color for this workspace on the front panel.
T}
char@*pchTitle@T{
.na
The title displayed in the button for this workspace on the front panel.
This string is interpreted in the locale in which the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is
running.
The title is different from the workspace name.
The workspace name, when converted from an X atom, is used as the identifier
for a workspace in the workspace manager function calls.
The
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1.
.cdee
also uses the workspace name as a resource name;
thus, the characters used in a workspace name are restricted to the
characters in the
X Portable Character Set.
The workspace name for a workspace created from the front panel is generated
automatically by the
.xos
workspace manager.
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1.
.cdee
T}
Window@*backdropWindows@T{
.na
A pointer to an array of windows that make up the backdrop.
T}
int@numBackdropWindows@T{
.na
The number of elements in the
\f2backdropWindows\fP
array.
T}
.TE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo
function returns Success and the workspace manager returns in
.I *ppWsInfo
a pointer to a
.B DtWsmInfo
structure that contains information about the workspace
.IR aWorkspace ;
otherwise,
it returns a value not equal to Success.
.br
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo
function is not successful, failure may be due to a memory allocation error
or failure to find the correct workspace information (that is, the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is not running).
The application
must use the
.Fn DtWsmFreeWorkspaceInfo 3
function to free the data returned in
.IR *ppWsInfo .
The
.I *backdropWindows
pointer may be useful for applications that are
interested in some events on the root window.
Since the backdrop covers the root window, the backdrop catches the button events
before they reach the root.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceList 3,
.Fn DtWsmFreeWorkspaceInfo 3.
