.TH DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace \- get the current workspace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Status DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace('u
Status DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2root\fP,
	Atom *\f2paWorkspace\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and returns the name of the current workspace
(converted to an X atom).
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I root
argument is the root window of the screen of interest.
.P
The
.I paWorkspace
argument is the address of an atom to receive the
current workspace identifier.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace
function returns Success and the atom
identifying the current workspace is returned in
.IR paWorkspace ;
otherwise,
it returns a value not equal to Success.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtWsmGetCurrentWorkspace
function is not successful, the most likely reason for failure is that the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is not running.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5.
