.TH DtWsmGetWorkspaceList 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmGetWorkspaceList \- get the names of the currently defined workspaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Status DtWsmGetWorkspaceList('u
Status DtWsmGetWorkspaceList(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2root\fP,
	Atom **\f2ppaWorkspaces\fP,
	int *\f2pNumWorkspaces\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceList
function
works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1.
.cdee
and returns a list of the names (converted into X atoms)
of the currently defined workspaces.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I root
argument is the root window of the screen of interest.
.P
The
.I *ppaWorkspaces
argument is the address of a pointer to receive the
returned pointer to the workspacelist.
.P
The
.I pNumWorkspaces
argument is the address of an integer to receive the
number of elements in the workspacelist.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceList
function returns Success and the workspace manager returns in
.I *ppaWorkspaces
the list of atoms identifying workspaces, and returns in
.I pNumWorkspaces
the number of workspaces.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceList
function
is not successful, failure may be due to a memory allocation error or failure
to find the correct workspace information (that is, the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
is not running).
To get detailed information on the workspaces, the application must first call the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceList
function to get the names of all the workspaces.
Then, for each workspace in the list, the application must call the
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo 3
function.
The application must use
.Fn XtFree 3X
to free data returned in
.IR *ppaWorkspaces .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5,
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.cde .Fn XtFree 3X,
.xos
.Fn XtFree 3X
in the \*(Zt;
.xoe
.Fn DtWsmGetWorkspaceInfo 3.
