.TH DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied 3 "19 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied \- set the workspaces in which a window resides
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Wsm.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied('u
void DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Window \f2window\fP,
	Atom *\f2paWorkspaces\fP,
	int \f2numWs\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied
function works with the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
and puts a window into a set of workspaces.
.P
The
.I display
argument is the X display.
.P
The
.I window
argument is the window to be put into
this set of workspaces.
.P
The
.I paWorkspaces
argument points to a list of workspace names
(converted to X atoms); the
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde
workspace manager,
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
places the window into these
workspaces.
.P
The
.I numWs
argument is the number of elements in the list of
workspaces.
.P
The
.Fn DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied
function does not validate the list of requested workspaces.
The workspace manager ignores invalid workspaces in the list.
.P
Calling the
.Fn DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied
function overrides the effect of the
.Fn DtWsmOccupyAllWorkspaces
function.
.br
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.Fn DtWsmSetWorkspacesOccupied
function returns no value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cdes
.Cm dtwm 1,
.cdee
.Hd Dt/Wsm.h 5.
