...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH MrmCloseHierarchy 3X
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIMrmCloseHierarchy\fP \- Closes a UID hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>\fI
.sp \n(PDu
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
Cardinal MrmCloseHierarchy(\fBhierarchy_id\fI)
	MrmHierarchy	\fBhierarchy_id\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The
\fIMrmCloseHierarchy\fP
function
closes a UID hierarchy previously opened by \fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\fP.
All files associated with the hierarchy are closed by the
Motif Resource Manager (MRM) and all associated memory is returned.
.IP "\fBhierarchy_id\fP"
Specifies the ID of a previously opened UID hierarchy.
The \fBhierarchy_id\fP was returned in a previous call to
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\fP.
.nL
.ne 15
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.IP "\fIMrmSUCCESS\fP"
The function executed successfully.
.IP "\fIMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP"
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP "\fIMrmFAILURE\fP"
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay(3X)\fP.
.ad
