...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH MrmFetchLiteral 3X
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIMrmFetchLiteral\fP \- Fetches a literal from a UID file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int MrmFetchLiteral(\fBhierarchy_id, index, display, value, type\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	MrmHierarchy	\fBhierarchy_id\fI;
	String	\fBindex\fI;
	Display	*\fBdisplay\fI;
	XtPointer	*\fBvalue\fI;
	MrmCode	*\fBtype\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The
\fIMrmFetchLiteral\fP
function
reads and returns the value and type of a literal (named value)
that is stored as
a public resource in a single UID file.
This function returns a pointer to the value of the literal.
For example, an integer is always returned as a pointer to an integer,
and a string is always returned as a pointer to a string.
.PP 
Applications should not use
\fIMrmFetchLiteral\fP
for fetching icon or color literals.
If this is attempted,
\fIMrmFetchLiteral\fP
returns an error.
.IP "\fBhierarchy_id\fP"
Specifies the ID of the UID hierarchy that contains the
specified literal.
The \fBhierarchy_id\fP was returned in a previous call to
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBindex\fP"
Specifies the UIL name of the literal (pixmap) to fetch.
You must define this name in UIL as an exported value.
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the display used for the pixmap.
The
\fBdisplay\fP
argument specifies the connection to the X server.
For more information on the
\fIDisplay\fP structure see the Xlib function
\fIXOpenDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBvalue\fP"
Returns the ID of the named literal's value.
.IP "\fBtype\fP"
Returns the named literal's data type.
Types are defined in the include file \fI<Mrm/MrmPublic.h>\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.IP "\fIMrmSUCCESS\fP"
The function executed successfully.
.IP "\fIMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP"
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP "\fIMrmNOT_FOUND\fP"
The literal was not found in the UIL file.
.IP "\fIMrmWRONG_TYPE\fP"
The caller tried to fetch a literal of a type not supported by this
function.
.IP "\fIMrmFAILURE\fP"
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIMrmFetchBitmapLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchIconLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchColorLiteral(3X)\fP, and
\fIXOpenDisplay(3X)\fP.
.ad
