...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH Shell 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIShell\fP \- The Shell widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <X11/Shell.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Shell is a top-level widget (with only one managed child) that encapsulates
the interaction with the window manager.
.PP 
At the time the shell's child is managed, the child's width is used
for both widgets if the shell is unrealized and no width has been
specified for the shell.  Otherwise, the shell's width is used for
both widgets.  The same relations hold for the height of the shell and
its child.
.SS "Classes"
Shell inherits behavior and resources from \fIComposite\fP and \fICore\fP.
.PP
The class pointer is \fIshellWidgetClass\fP.
.PP
The class name is \fIShell\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Shell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNallowShellResize	XmCAllowShellResize	Boolean	False	CG
XmNcreatePopupChildProc	XmCCreatePopupChildProc	XtCreatePopupChildProc	NULL	CSG
XmNgeometry	XmCGeometry	String	NULL	CSG
XmNoverrideRedirect	XmCOverrideRedirect	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNpopdownCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNpopupCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNsaveUnder	XmCSaveUnder	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNvisual	XmCVisual	Visual *	CopyFromParent	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.nL
.ne 6
.IP "\fIXmNallowShellResize\fP"
Specifies that if this resource is False, the Shell widget instance
returns \fIXtGeometryNo\fP to all geometry requests from its children.
.IP "\fIXmNcreatePopupChildProc\fP"
Specifies the pointer to a function that is called when the Shell
widget instance is popped up by \fIXtPopup\fP.
The function creates the child widget when the shell is popped up
instead of when the application starts up.
This can be used if the child needs to be reconfigured each time the
shell is popped up.
The function takes one argument, the popup shell, and returns no result.
It is called after the popup callbacks specified by
\fIXmNpopupCallback\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNgeometry\fP"
Specifies the desired geometry for the widget instance.  This resource
is examined only when the widget instance is unrealized and the number
of its managed children is changed.  It is to change the values
of the \fIXmNx\fP, \fIXmNy\fP, \fIXmNwidth\fP, and \fIXmNheight\fP
resources.
.IP "\fIXmNoverrideRedirect\fP"
Specifies this is True if the widget instance is a temporary
window which should be ignored by the window manager.  Applications and
users should not normally alter this resource.
.IP "\fIXmNpopdownCallback\fP"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called when the widget instance
is popped down by \fIXtPopdown\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNpopupCallback\fP"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called when the widget instance
is popped up by \fIXtPopup\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNsaveUnder\fP"
Specifies a True value if it is desirable to save the contents of the
screen beneath this widget instance, avoiding expose events when the
instance is unmapped.  This is a hint, and an implementation may save
contents whenever it desires, including always or never.
.nL
.ne 6
.IP "\fIXmNvisual\fP"
Specifies the visual used in creating the widget.
.nL
.ne 3i
.SS "Inherited Resources"
Shell inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclass.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Composite Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	1	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for Shell.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIComposite(3X)\fP and \fICore(3X)\fP.
.ad
