.TH tt_file_copy 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_file_copy \- copy objects from one file to a new file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_file_copy('u
Tt_status tt_file_copy(const char *\f2oldfilepath\fP,
	const char *\f2newfilepath\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_file_copy
function
copies all objects that exist on the specified file to a new file.
If any objects already exist on
.IR newfilepath ,
they are not overwritten by
the copy (that is, they are not removed.)
.P
The
.I oldfilepath
argument is a pointer to the name of the file whose objects are to be copied.
The
.I newfilepath
argument is a pointer to the name of the file on which to create
the copied objects.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_file_copy
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.cde It does not appear to exist; administrative action is required.
.Lc TT_ERR_FILE
.br
The specified file does not exist or it is inaccessible.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_file_move 3,
.Fn tt_file_destroy 3.
