.TH tt_file_destroy 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_file_destroy \- remove objected rooted on a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_file_destroy('u
Tt_status tt_file_destroy(const char *\f2filepath\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_file_destroy
function
removes all objects that exist on the files and directories rooted at
.IR filepath .
The application must call this function when the application
unlinks a file or removes a directory.
.P
The
.I filepath
argument is a pointer to the pathname of the file or directory to be removed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_file_destroy
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_ACCESS
.br
The user does not have the necessary access to the object and/or the process.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.cde It does not appear to exist; administrative action is required.
.Lc TT_ERR_FILE
.br
The specified file does not exist or it is inaccessible.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_file_copy 3,
.Fn tt_file_move 3;
.Cm rmdir 2,
.cde .Cm unlink 2,
.xo .Cm unlink 2
.xo in the \*(ZC.
