.TH tt_message_destroy 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_destroy \- destroy a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_destroy('u
Tt_status tt_message_destroy(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_destroy
function
destroys the message.
.P
Destroying a message has no effect on the delivery of a message already sent.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_destroy
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If the application
sent a request and is expecting a reply with return values,
the application should destroy the
message after it have received the reply.
If the application sends a notice, the application can destroy
the message immediately after it sends the notice.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_message_create 3,
.Fn tt_message_create_super 3.
