.TH tt_message_arg_ival_set 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_arg_ival_set \- add an integer value in a message argument
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_arg_ival_set('u
Tt_status tt_message_arg_ival_set(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2n\fP,
	int \f2value\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_arg_ival_set
function adds an integer value in the
.IR n th
message argument.
.P
This function also changes the value of an existing
.IR n th
message argument to an integer.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument is the number of the argument to be set.
The first argument is numbered zero.
The
.I value
argument is the contents for the message argument.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_arg_ival_set
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_message_iarg_add 3,
.Fn tt_message_arg_val_set 3,
.Fn tt_message_arg_bval_set 3.
