.TH tt_message_send 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_send \- send a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_send('u
Tt_status tt_message_send(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_send
function
sends the specified message.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_send
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_ADDRESS
.br
The specified
.B Tt_address
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_CLASS
.br
The specified
.B Tt_class
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_FILE
.br
The specified file does not exist or it is inaccessible.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is implementation specific,
.ne 2
but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.Lc TT_WRN_STALE_OBJID
.br
The object attribute in the message has been replaced with a newer one.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5.
