.TH tt_message_scope 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_scope \- retrieve the scope attribute from a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_scope tt_message_scope('u
Tt_scope tt_message_scope(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_scope
function
retrieves the scope attribute from the specified message.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_scope
function returns a value that identifies the set of processes
eligible to receive the message.
The following values are defined:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_SESSION
.br
All processes joined to the indicated session are eligible.
.Lc TT_FILE
.br
All processes joined to the indicated file are eligible.
.Lc TT_BOTH
.br
All processes joined to either indicated file
or the indicated session are eligible.
.Lc TT_FILE_IN_SESSION
.br
All processes joined to both the indicated file
and the indicated session are eligible.
.LE
.P
The application can use
.Fn tt_int_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the
.B Tt_scope
integer return value:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_int_error 3.
