.TH tt_message_class_set 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_class_set \- set the class attribute for a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_class_set('u
Tt_status tt_message_class_set(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	Tt_class \f2c\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_class_set
function
sets the class attribute for the specified message.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I c
argument indicates whether an action is to take place after the
message is received.
The following values are defined:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_NOTICE
.br
A notice of an event.
The sender does not want feedback on this message.
.Lc TT_REQUEST
.br
A request for some action to be taken.
The sender must be notified of progress,
success or failure, and must receive any return values.
.LE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_class_set
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5.
