.TH tt_message_create 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_create \- create a new message object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_message_create('u
Tt_message tt_message_create(void);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_create
function creates a new message object.
.P
The ToolTalk service returns a message handle that is an opaque pointer to a
ToolTalk structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_create
function returns the unique opaque handle that identifies the message object.
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The process identification is not valid.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
A return value of
.Cn TT_ERR_PROCID
implies that
.Fn tt_open 3
was not issued before
.Fn tt_message_create .
.P
If the ToolTalk service is unable to create a message when requested,
.Fn tt_message_create
returns an invalid handle.
When the application attempts to use this handle with another
ToolTalk function, the ToolTalk service will return
.Cn TT_ERR_POINTER .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_open 3,
.Fn tt_message_send 3,
.Fn tt_message_destroy 3.
