.TH tt_message_user_set 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_user_set \- stores user information associated with a message object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_user_set('u
Tt_status tt_message_user_set(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2key\fP,
	void *\f2v\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_user_set
function
stores user information in data cells associated with the specified message
object.
.P
The user data is part of the message object (that is, the storage buffer in
the application); it is not part of the actual message.
Data stored by the sending
process in user data cells is not seen by handlers and observers.
The application can use arguments
for data that needs to be seen by handlers or observers.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I key
argument is the user data cell in which user information is to be stored.
The
.I v
argument is the data cell,
a piece of arbitrary user data that can hold a
.BR "void\ *" .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_user_set
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_message_arg_add 3.
