.TH tt_message_class 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_class \- retrieve the class attribute from a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_class('u
Tt_class tt_message_class(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_class
function
retrieves the class attribute from the specified message.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_class
function returns a value that indicates whether the sender
wants an action to take place after the message is received.
The
.Fn tt_message_class
function returns one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_NOTICE
.br
A notice of an event.
The sender does not want feedback on this message.
.Lc TT_REQUEST
.br
A request for some action to be taken.
The sender must be notified of progress,
success or failure, and must receive any return values.
.LE
.P
The application can use
.Fn tt_int_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the
.B Tt_class
integer:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_int_error 3.
