.TH tt_message_create_super 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_message_create_super \- create and re-address a copy of a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_message_create_super('u
Tt_message tt_message_create_super(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_message_create_super
function
creates a copy of the specified message and re-addresses the copy of the
message to the parent of the otype contained within the message.
.P
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_message_create_super
function returns the opaque unique handle for the re-addressed message.
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_ADDRESS
.br
The specified
.B Tt_address
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The otype of the message
.I m
can be determined using the
.Fn tt_message_otype 3
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_message_otype 3,
.Fn tt_message_send 3,
.Fn tt_message_destroy 3.
