.TH tt_otype_base 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_otype_base \- return the base otype of an otype
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_otype_base('u
char *tt_otype_base(const char *\f2otype\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_otype_base
function
returns the base
otype
of the given
otype,
or
.Cn NULL
if the given
otype
is not derived.
.P
The
otype
argument is the object type involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_otype_base
function returns the name of the base otype; if the given
otype
is not derived, this value is
.Cn NULL .
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.Fn tt_free 3
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_otype_is_derived 3,
.Fn tt_otype_derived 3,
.Fn tt_otype_deriveds_count 3,
.Fn tt_spec_type 3,
.Fn tt_message_otype 3,
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3,
.Fn tt_free 3.
