.TH tt_otype_is_derived 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_otype_is_derived \- indicate the otype derivations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'int tt_otype_is_derived('u
int tt_otype_is_derived(const char *\f2derivedotype\fP,
	const char *\f2baseotype\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_otype_is_derived
function
specifies whether the derived
otype
is derived directly or
indirectly from the base
otype.
.P
The
.I derivedotype
argument is the specified derived
otype.
The
.I baseotype
argument is the specified base
otype.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_otype_is_derived
function returns one of the following integers:
.VL 4
.LI 1
The
.I derivedotype
is derived directly or indirectly from
.IR baseotype .
.LE
.P
The application can use
.Fn tt_int_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned integer:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_otype_deriveds_count 3,
.Fn tt_otype_base 3,
.Fn tt_otype_derived 3,
.Fn tt_spec_type 3,
.Fn tt_message_otype 3,
.Fn tt_int_error 3.
