.TH tt_otype_derived 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_otype_derived \- return the ith otype derived from the given otype
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_otype_derived('u
char *tt_otype_derived(const char *\f2otype\fP,
	int \f2i\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_otype_derived
function
returns the
.IR i th
otype
derived from the given
otype.
.P
The
otype
argument is the object type involved in this operation.
The
.I i
argument is the zero-based index into the
otypes
derived from the given
otype.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_otype_derived
function returns the name of the
.IR i th
otype
derived from the given
otype.
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.Fn tt_free 3
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_otype_is_derived 3,
.Fn tt_otype_base 3,
.Fn tt_otype_deriveds_count 3,
.Fn tt_spec_type 3,
.Fn tt_message_otype 3,
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3,
.Fn tt_free 3.
