.TH tt_pattern_class_add 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_pattern_class_add \- add a value to the class information for a pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_pattern_class_add('u
Tt_status tt_pattern_class_add(Tt_pattern \f2p\fP,
	Tt_class \f2c\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_pattern_class_add
function
adds a value to the class information for the specified pattern.
.P
If the class is
.Cn TT_REQUEST ,
the sending process expects a reply to the message.
.P
If the class is
.Cn TT_NOTICE ,
the sending process does not expect a reply to the
message.
.P
The
.I p
argument is a unique handle for a message pattern.
This handle is returned after
.Fn tt_pattern_create 3
is called.
The
.I c
argument indicates whether the receiving process is to
take action after the message is received.
The following values are defined:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_NOTICE
.br
A notice of an event.
The sender does not want feedback on this message.
.Lc TT_REQUEST
.br
A request for some action to be taken.
The sender must be notified of progress,
success or failure, and must receive any return values.
.LE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_pattern_class_add
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_pattern_create 3.
