.TH tt_pattern_register 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_pattern_register \- register a pattern with the ToolTalk service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_pattern_register('u
Tt_status tt_pattern_register(Tt_pattern \f2p\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_pattern_register
function
registers a pattern with the ToolTalk service.
.P
When the process is registered,
it will start receiving messages that match the specified pattern.
Once a pattern is registered, no further changes can be made
in the pattern.
.P
When the process joins a session or file, the ToolTalk service updates
the file and session field of its registered patterns.
.P
The
.I p
argument is a unique handle for a message pattern.
This handle is returned after
.Fn tt_pattern_create 3
is called.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_pattern_register
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_pattern_unregister 3,
.Fn tt_pattern_create 3.
