.TH tt_pattern_category_set 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_pattern_category_set \- fill in the category field for a pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_pattern_category_set('u
Tt_status tt_pattern_category_set(Tt_pattern \f2p\fP,
	Tt_category \f2c\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_pattern_category_set
function
fills in the category field for the specified pattern.
.P
The
.I p
argument is a unique handle for a message pattern.
This handle is returned after
.Fn tt_pattern_create 3
is called.
.P
The
.I c
argument indicates whether the receiving process will
observe or handle messages.
The following values are defined:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OBSERVE
.br
The receiving process will observe messages.
.Lc TT_HANDLE
.br
The receiving process will handle messages.
.br
.LE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_pattern_category_set
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_CATEGORY
.br
The pattern object has no category set.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_pattern_category 3,
.Fn tt_pattern_create 3.
