.TH tt_spec_propname 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_spec_propname \- return an element of the property name list for an object spec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_spec_propname('u
char *tt_spec_propname(const char *\f2objid\fP,
	int \f2n\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_spec_propname
function
returns the
.IR n th
element of the property name list for this object spec.
.P
The
.I objid
argument is the identifier of the object involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument is the item of the list whose element is to be returned.
The list numbering
begins with zero.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_spec_propname
function returns the property name.
If there are
.I n
properties or less,
.Fn tt_spec_propname
returns
.Cn NULL .
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
.I objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.Fn tt_free 3
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3,
.Fn tt_free 3.
