.TH tt_spec_file 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tt_spec_file \- retrieve the name of the file that contains the object described by the spec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_spec_file('u
char *tt_spec_file(const char *\f2objid\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tt_spec_file
function
retrieves the name of the file that contains the object described by the spec.
.P
The
.I objid
argument is the identifier of the object involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tt_spec_file
function returns the absolute pathname of the file.
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
.I objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.Fn tt_free 3
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tt_c.h 5,
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3,
.Fn tt_free 3.
