.TH ttdt_file_quit 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
ttdt_file_quit \- unregister interest in ToolTalk events about a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_file_quit('u
Tt_status ttdt_file_quit(Tt_pattern *\f2patterns\fP,
	int \f2quit\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ttdt_file_quit
function
is used to unregister interest in the
.I pathname
that was passed to
.Fn ttdt_file_join 3
when
.I patterns
was created.
The
.Fn ttdt_file_quit
function destroys
.I patterns
and sets the default file to
.Cn NULL .
.P
If
.I quit
is True,
.Fn ttdt_file_quit
calls
.Fn tt_file_quit 3
with a
.I pathname
argument; otherwise, it returns without quitting.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn ttdt_file_quit
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the ToolTalk database
needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the specified ToolTalk database
in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I patterns
argument was
.Cn NULL
or otherwise invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tttk.h 5,
.Fn ttdt_file_join 3,
.Fn tt_default_file 3,
.Fn tt_file_quit 3.
