.TH ttdt_sender_imprint_on 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
ttdt_sender_imprint_on \- act like a child of the specified tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_sender_imprint_on('u
Tt_status ttdt_sender_imprint_on(const char *\f2handler\fP,
	Tt_message \f2contract\fP,
	char **\f2display\fP,
	int *\f2width\fP,
	int *\f2height\fP,
	int *\f2xoffset\fP,
	int *\f2yoffset\fP,
	XtAppContext \f2app2run\fP,
	int \f2ms_timeout\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
function
is used to make the calling tool act equivalently to a child of
another specified tool.
The calling tool adopts the other
tool's X11 display, locale, and current working directory.
It also learns the other tool's X11 geometry, so that it may
position itself appropriately.
.P
If
.I display
is not
.Cn NULL ,
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
returns the other tool's display in
.IR *display .
If
.I display
is
.Cn NULL ,
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
sets the
.I DISPLAY
environment variable to the other tool's display.
.P
If each of
.IR width ,
.IR height ,
.IR xoffset ,
and
.I yoffset
are
.Cn NULL ,
then
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
does not send the other tool a
.IR Get_Geometry
request.
.P
The
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
function
passes
.I app2run
and
.I ms_timeout
to
.Fn tttk_block_while 3,
blocking on the replies to the requests it sends.
.P
If
.I display
is not
.Cn NULL ,
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
sets
.I *display
to a string that can be freed with
.Fn tt_free .
.P
If for some reason no width [height] is returned by the other tool,
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
sets
.IR *width
.RI [ *height ]
to \-1.
If no positional information is returned,
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
sets
.IR *xoffset
.RI [ *yoffset ]
to {INT_MAX}.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ETIMEDOUT
.br
One or more of the sent requests did not complete within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is
.ne 2
implementation specific, but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tttk.h 5,
.Fn tt_free 3,
.Fn tttk_block_while 3.
