.TH ttdt_Revert 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
ttdt_Revert \- request a ToolTalk client to revert a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_Revert('u
Tt_status ttdt_Revert(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	const char *\f2pathname\fP,
	Tt_scope \f2the_scope\fP,
	XtAppContext \f2app2run\fP,
	int \f2ms_timeout\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ttdt_Revert
function
sends a
.IR Revert
request in the
.I the_scope
argument and waits for the reply.
A
.IR Revert
request asks the handling
ToolTalk client to discard any changes pending on
.IR pathname .
.P
The
.I context
argument describes the environment to use.
If
.I context
is not zero, messages created by
.Fn ttdt_Revert
inherit from
.I context
all contexts whose slotname begins with the characters
.Cn ENV_ .
.P
The
.I the_scope
argument identifies the scope of the request.
If
.I the_scope
is
.Cn TT_SCOPE_NONE ,
.Fn ttdt_Revert
tries
.Cn TT_BOTH ,
and falls back to
.Cn TT_FILE_IN_SESSION
if, for example,
the ToolTalk database server
is not installed on the file server that owns
.IR pathname .
.P
The
.Fn ttdt_Revert
function passes
.I app2run
and
.I ms_timeout
to
.Fn tttk_block_while 3,
blocking on the reply to the
.IR Save
request it sends.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn ttdt_Revert
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The sent request received an affirmative reply within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ETIMEDOUT
.br
No reply was received within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EPROTO
.br
The request was failed, but the handler set the
.Fn tt_message_status
of the failure reply to
.Cn TT_OK ,
instead of a specific error status.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the ToolTalk database
needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the specified ToolTalk database
in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is
.ne 2
implementation specific, but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I pathname
argument was
.Cn NULL
or was a ToolTalk error pointer.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tttk.h 5,
.Fn ttdt_Save 3,
.Fn ttdt_file_join 3,
.Fn ttdt_file_event 3,
.Fn tttk_block_while 3.
