.TH tttk_message_create 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tttk_message_create \- create a message conforming to the Cde conventions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tttk_message_create('u
Tt_message tttk_message_create(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	Tt_class \f2the_class\fP,
	Tt_scope \f2the_scope\fP,
	const char *\f2handler\fP,
	const char *\f2op\fP,
	Tt_message_callback \f2callback\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tttk_message_create
function
creates a message that propagates inherited contexts
from one message to another.
The
.Fn tttk_message_create
function creates a message and copies onto it all the context slots from
.I context
whose slotname begins with the characters
.Cn ENV_ .
It gives
the created message a
.B Tt_class
of
.I the_class
and a
.B Tt_scope
of
.IR the_scope .
If
.I handler
is not
.Cn NULL ,
then
.Fn tttk_message_create
addresses the message as a
.Cn TT_HANDLER
to that
procid;
otherwise, it gives the message a
.B Tt_address
of
.Cn TT_PROCEDURE .
It sets
the message's op to
.I op
if
.I op
is not
.Cn NULL .
If
.I callback
is not
.Cn NULL ,
.Fn tttk_message_create
adds it to the message as a message callback.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tttk_message_create
function
returns the created
.B Tt_message ,
which can be modified, sent, and destroyed like any other
.B Tt_message ;
otherwise, it returns an error pointer.
The application can use
.Fn tt_ptr_error 3
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tttk.h 5,
.Fn tt_message_create 3,
.Fn tttk_message_create 3,
.Fn ttdt_file_notice 3,
.Fn ttdt_file_request 3.
