.TH tttk_message_abandon 3 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
tttk_message_abandon \- finalize a message properly
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tttk_message_abandon('u
Tt_status tttk_message_abandon(Tt_message \f2msg\fP);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn tttk_message_abandon
function is used by an application
when it does not understand a message
and wants to get rid of it.
the
.Fn tttk_message_abandon
function fails or rejects
.I msg
if appropriate, and then destroys it.
The
.Fn tttk_message_abandon
will reject or fail the message only if
.I msg
is a
.Cn TT_REQUEST
in
.B Tt_state
.Cn TT_SENT .
If it has a
.B Tt_address
of
.Cn TT_HANDLER
or a
.Fn tt_message_status
of
.Cn TT_WRN_START_MESSAGE ,
then it fails the message;
otherwise, it rejects it.
In either case,
.Fn tttk_message_abandon
gives
.I msg
a message status (see
.Fn tt_message_status 3)
of
.Cn TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tttk_message_abandon
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.VL 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.Cm ttsession 1
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOTHANDLER
.br
This application is not the handler for this message.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object
of the correct type for this operation.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Tt/tttk.h 5,
.Fn tt_message_status 3,
.Fn tttk_message_fail 3,
.Fn tttk_message_reject 3.
