...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmClipboardUnlock 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmClipboardUnlock\fP \- A clipboard function that unlocks the clipboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int \fIXmClipboardUnlock\fI (\fBdisplay, window, remove_all_locks\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Display	\fB* display\fI;
	Window	\fBwindow\fI;
	Boolean	\fBremove_all_locks\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmClipboardUnlock\fP unlocks the clipboard,
enabling it to be accessed by other applications.
.PP 
If multiple calls to \fIXmClipboardLock\fP have occurred, the same
number of calls to \fIXmClipboardUnlock\fP is necessary to unlock the clipboard,
unless \fBremove_all_locks\fP is set to True.
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the \fIDisplay\fP structure that was returned in a
previous call to \fIXOpenDisplay\fP or \fIXtDisplay\fP.
.nL
.ne 4
.IP "\fBwindow\fP"
Specifies a widget's window ID that relates the application window to the
clipboard.  The widget's window ID can be obtained by using
\fIXtWindow\fP.
The same application instance should pass the same window ID to each of the
clipboard functions that it calls.
.IP "\fBremove_all_locks\fP"
When True, indicates that all nested locks should be removed.  When False,
indicates that only one level of lock should be removed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.IP "\fIClipboardSuccess\fP"
The function is successful.
.IP "\fIClipboardFail\fP"
The function failed because the clipboard was not locked or was locked
by another application.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmClipboardCancelCopy(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardEndCopy(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardEndRetrieve(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardInquireCount(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardInquireFormat(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardInquireLength(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardInquirePendingItems(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardLock(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardRegisterFormat(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardRetrieve(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardStartRetrieve(3X)\fP, \fIXmClipboardUndoCopy(3X)\fP,
and \fIXmClipboardWithdrawFormat(3X)\fP.
.ad
