...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmConvertUnits 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmConvertUnits\fP \- A function that converts a value in one unit type to another unit type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
.nf
int XmConvertUnits (\fBwidget, orientation, from_unit_type,
	from_value, to_unit_type\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBorientation\fI;
	int	\fBfrom_unit_type\fI;
	int	\fBfrom_value\fI;
	int	\fBto_unit_type\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmConvertUnits\fP converts the value and returns it as the return value from
the function.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the widget for which the data is to be converted
.nL
.ne 6
.IP "\fBorientation\fP"
Specifies whether the converter uses the horizontal or vertical screen
resolution when performing the conversions.  \fBorientation\fP can have values of
\fIXmHORIZONTAL\fP or \fIXmVERTICAL\fP.
.IP "\fBfrom_unit_type\fP"
Specifies the current unit type of the supplied value
.IP "\fBfrom_value\fP"
Specifies the value to be converted
.IP "\fBto_unit_type\fP"
Converts the value to the unit type specified
.PP 
The parameters \fBfrom_unit_type\fP and \fBto_unit_type\fP can have the
following values:
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmPIXELS\fP \- all values provided to the widget are treated as
normal pixel values.  This
is the default for the resource.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXm100TH_MILLIMETERS\fP \- all values provided to the widget are
treated as 1/100 millimeter.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXm1000TH_INCHES\fP \- all values provided to the widget are treated
as 1/1000 inch.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXm100TH_POINTS\fP \- all values provided to the widget are treated as
1/100 point.
A point is a unit typically used in text processing applications and
is defined as 1/72 inch.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXm100TH_FONT_UNITS\fP \- all values provided to the widget are
treated as 1/100 of a font unit.
A font unit has horizontal and vertical components.
These are the values of the XmScreen resources \fIXmNhorizontalFontUnit\fP
and \fIXmNverticalFontUnit\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the converted value.
If a NULL widget, incorrect \fBorientation\fP, or incorrect \fBunit_type\fP
is supplied as parameter data, 0 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmSetFontUnits(3X)\fP and 
\fIXmScreen(3X)\fP.
.ad
