...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateTemplateDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateTemplateDialog\fP \- A MessageBox TemplateDialog convenience
creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateTemplateDialog (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateTemplateDialog\fP is a convenience creation function
that creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged MessageBox child of
the DialogShell. The MessageBox widget's \fIXmNdialogType\fP resource
is set to \fIXmDIALOG_TEMPLATE\fP.  By default, the TemplateDialog
widget contains only the separator child.  You can build
a customized dialog by adding children to the TemplateDialog.
.PP
You can create
the standard MessageBox pushbuttons, \fICancel\fP, \fIHelp\fP,
and \fIOK\fP, by specifying the associated callback
and label string resources.  Setting \fIXmNsymbolPixmap\fP
or \fIXmNmessageString\fP creates a symbol or message label.
.PP
Use \fIXtManageChild\fP to pop up the TemplateDialog (passing the
MessageBox as the widget parameter); use \fIXtUnmanageChild\fP to
pop it down.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID 
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument
list (\fBarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources,
see \fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
