...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreatePulldownMenu 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreatePulldownMenu\fP \- A RowColumn widget convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreatePulldownMenu (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreatePulldownMenu\fP creates an instance of a
RowColumn widget of type \fIXmMENU_PULLDOWN\fP and returns
the associated widget ID.  When using this function to create the Pulldown
MenuPane, a MenuShell widget is automatically created as the parent of the
MenuPane. If the widget specified
by the \fBparent\fP parameter is a
Popup or a Pulldown MenuPane, the MenuShell
widget is created as a child of the \fBparent\fP's MenuShell; otherwise, it
is created as a child of the specified \fBparent\fP widget.
.PP 
\fIXmCreatePulldownMenu\fP is
provided as a convenience function for creating RowColumn
widgets configured to operate as Pulldown MenuPanes and is not implemented as
a separate widget class.
.PP 
A Pulldown MenuPane displays a
3-D shadow, unless the feature is disabled by the application.
The shadow appears around the edge of the MenuPane.
.PP 
A Pulldown MenuPane is used when creating submenus that are to be
attached to a CascadeButton or a
CascadeButtonGadget.  This is the case for all MenuPanes
that are part of a PulldownMenu system (a MenuBar), the MenuPane
associated with an OptionMenu, and any MenuPanes that cascade from
a Popup MenuPane.  Pulldown MenuPanes that are to be associated with an
OptionMenu must be created before the OptionMenu is created.
.PP 
The Pulldown MenuPane must be attached to a CascadeButton or CascadeButtonGadget
that resides in a MenuBar, a Popup MenuPane, a Pulldown MenuPane, or an
OptionMenu.  This is done by using the button resource \fIXmNsubMenuId\fP.
.PP 
A MenuShell widget is required between the Pulldown MenuPane and its
parent.
If the application uses this convenience function for creating a
Pulldown MenuPane, the MenuShell is automatically created as the real
parent of the MenuPane; otherwise,
it is the application's responsibility to create
the MenuShell widget.
.PP 
To function correctly when incorporated into a menu, the Pulldown MenuPane's
hierarchy must be considered; this hierarchy depends on the
type of menu system that is being built as follows:
.TP
\(bu
If the Pulldown MenuPane is to be pulled down from a MenuBar, its \fBparent\fP
must be the MenuBar.
.TP
\(bu
If the Pulldown MenuPane is to be pulled down from a Popup or another
Pulldown MenuPane, its \fBparent\fP must be that Popup or Pulldown MenuPane.
.TP
\(bu
If the Pulldown MenuPane is to be pulled down from an OptionMenu, its
\fBparent\fP must be the same as the OptionMenu parent.
.TP "\fBparent\fP"
\(bu
Specifies the parent widget ID
.TP "\fBname\fP"
\(bu
Specifies the name of the created widget
.TP "\fBarglist\fP"
\(bu
Specifies the argument list
.TP "\fBargcount\fP"
\(bu
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
PullDown MenuPanes support tear-off capabilities
for tear-off menus through \fIXmRowColumn\fP
resources.
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the RowColumn widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmCascadeButton(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCascadeButtonGadget(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateOptionMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimplePulldownMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMenuShell(3X)\fP,
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmVaCreateSimplePulldownMenu(3X)\fP.
.ad
