...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateSelectionBox 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateSelectionBox\fP \- The SelectionBox widget creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/SelectioB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateSelectionBox (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateSelectionBox\fP creates an unmanaged SelectionBox.
A SelectionBox is used to get a selection
from a list of alternatives from the user and
includes the following:
.TP
\(bu
A scrolling list of alternatives
.TP
\(bu
An editable text field for the selected alternative
.TP
\(bu
Labels for the list and text field
.TP
\(bu
Three or four buttons
.PP 
.ne 5
The default button labels are \fIOK\fP, \fICancel\fP, and \fIHelp\fP.
By default an \fIApply\fP button is also created; if the parent of the
SelectionBox is a DialogShell it is managed, and otherwise it is unmanaged.
Additional work area children may be added to the SelectionBox after
creation.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of SelectionBox
and its associated resources, see \fIXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.P 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the SelectionBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
