...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCvtStringToUnitType 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCvtStringToUnitType\fP \- A function that converts a string to a unit-type value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmCvtStringToUnitType (\fBargs, num_args, from_val, to_val\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XrmValuePtr	\fBargs\fI;
	Cardinal	\fB* num_args\fI;
	XrmValue	\fB* from_val\fI;
	XrmValue	\fB* to_val\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCvtStringToUnitType\fP converts a string to a unit type.  Refer to
the man pages for \fIXmGadget\fP, \fIXmManager\fP, or \fIXmPrimitive\fP for a
description of the valid unit types.
Use of this function as a resource converter is obsolete.  It has been replaced
by a new resource converter that uses the RepType facility.
.IP "\fBargs\fP"
Specifies a list of additional \fIXrmValue\fP arguments to the converter
if additional context is needed to perform the conversion.  For example,
the string-to-font converter needs the widget's screen and the
string-to-pixel converter needs the widget's screen and color map.  This
argument is often NULL.
.IP "\fBnum_args\fP"
Specifies the number of additional \fIXrmValue\fP arguments.  This argument
is often zero.
.IP "\fBfrom_val\fP"
Specifies the value to convert
.IP "\fBto_val\fP"
Specifies the descriptor to use to return the converted value
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmGadget(3X)\fP, \fIXmManager(3X)\fP, and \fIXmPrimitive(3X)\fP.
.ad
