...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCvtCTToXmString 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCvtCTToXmString\fP \- A compound string function that converts compound text to a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmCvtCTToXmString (\fBtext\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	char	\fB* text\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCvtCTToXmString\fP converts a (char *) string in compound text
format to a compound string.
The application must call \fIXtAppInitialize\fP before calling this
function.
Conversion of compound text to compound strings is implementation
dependent.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a string in compound text format to be converted to a compound
string.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a compound string derived from the compound text.
The compound text is assumed to be NULL-terminated; NULLs within the
compound text are handled correctly.
The handling of HORIZONTAL TABULATION (HT) control characters within the
compound text is undefined.
The compound text format is described in the X Consortium Standard
\fBCompound Text Encoding\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmCvtXmStringToCT(3X)\fP.
.ad
