...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDeactivateProtocol 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDeactivateProtocol\fP \- A VendorShell function that deactivates a protocol without removing it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/Protocols.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmDeactivateProtocol (\fBshell, property, protocol\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
	Atom	\fBproperty\fI;
	Atom	\fBprotocol\fI;
.sp \n(PDu
void XmDeactivateWMProtocol (\fBshell, protocol\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
	Atom	\fBprotocol\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDeactivateProtocol\fP deactivates a protocol without removing it.
It updates the handlers and the \fBproperty\fP, if
the \fBshell\fP is realized.  It is sometimes useful to allow
a protocol's state information (callback lists, etc.) to persist, even though
the client may choose to temporarily resign from the interaction.
The main use of this capability is to gray/ungray \fIf.send_msg\fP
entries in the Mwm system menu.  This is
supported by allowing a \fBprotocol\fP to be in one of two states:  active or
inactive.  If the \fBprotocol\fP is active and the \fBshell\fP is realized,
the \fBproperty\fP contains the \fBprotocol\fP \fIAtom\fP.
If the \fBprotocol\fP is inactive, the \fIAtom\fP is not present in
the \fBproperty\fP.
.nL
.ne 7
.PP 
\fIXmDeactivateWMProtocol\fP is a convenience interface.
It calls \fIXmDeactivateProtocol\fP
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fIWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.IP "\fBshell\fP"
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated
.IP "\fBproperty\fP"
Specifies the protocol property
.IP "\fBprotocol\fP"
Specifies the protocol atom (or an int type cast to Atom)
.PP 
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fIVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fImwm(1X)\fP, \fIVendorShell(3X)\fP, \fIXmDeactivateWMProtocol(3X)\fP,
and \fIXmInternAtom(3X)\fP.
.ad
