...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListInitFontContext 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListInitFontContext\fP \- A font list function that allows
applications to access the entries in a font list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmFontListInitFontContext (\fBcontext, fontlist\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmFontContext	\fB*context\fI;
	XmFontList	\fBfontlist\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListInitFontContext\fP
establishes a context to allow applications to access the contents
of a font list.  This context is used when reading the font
list entry tag, font, or font set associated with each entry in
the font list.  A Boolean status is returned to indicate whether
or not the font list is valid.
.IP "\fBcontext\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the allocated context
.IP "\fBfontlist\fP"
Specifies the font list
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the context was allocated; otherwise, returns False.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListFreeFontContext(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmFontListNextEntry(3X)\fP.
.ad
