...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmGetTabGroup 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmGetTabGroup\fP \- Returns the widget ID of a tab group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmGetTabGroup (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget		\fBwidget\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmGetTabGroup\fP returns the widget ID of the tab group that
contains the specified widget.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies a widget ID within a tab group
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID of a tab group or shell, determined as follows:
.TP
\(bu
If \fBwidget\fP is a tab group or shell, returns \fBwidget\fP
.TP
\(bu
If neither \fBwidget\fP nor any ancestor up to the nearest shell is a tab
group, returns the nearest ancestor of \fBwidget\fP that is a shell
.TP
\(bu
Otherwise, returns the nearest ancestor of \fBwidget\fP that is a tab group
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmAddTabGroup(3X)\fP,
\fIXmManager(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmPrimitive(3X)\fP.
.ad
