...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmGetColors 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmGetColors\fP \- A function that generates foreground, select, and shadow colors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
.nf
void XmGetColors (\fBscreen, colormap, background, foreground, top_shadow, bottom_shadow, select\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Screen	\fB* screen\fI;
	Colormap	\fBcolormap\fI;
	Pixel	\fBbackground\fI;
	Pixel	\fB* foreground\fI;
	Pixel	\fB* top_shadow\fI;
	Pixel	\fB* bottom_shadow\fI;
	Pixel	\fB* select\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmGetColors\fP takes a screen, a colormap, and a background pixel,
and it returns pixel values for foreground, select, and shadow colors.
.IP "\fBscreen\fP"
Specifies the screen for which these colors should be allocated
.IP "\fBcolormap\fP"
Specifies the colormap from which these colors should be allocated
.IP "\fBbackground\fP"
Specifies the background on which the colors should be based
.IP "\fBforeground\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the returned foreground pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or returned for this color.
.IP "\fBtop_shadow\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the returned top shadow pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or returned for this color.
.IP "\fBbottom_shadow\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the returned bottom shadow pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or returned for this color.
.IP "\fBselect\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the returned select pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or  returned for this color.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmChangeColor(3X)\fP,
\fIXmGetColorCalculation(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmSetColorCalculation(3X)\fP.
.ad
