...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmGetTearOffControl 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmGetTearOffControl\fP \- A RowColumn function that obtains the widget ID for the tear-off control in a menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmGetTearOffControl (\fBmenu\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBmenu\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmGetTearOffControl\fP provides the application with the means for
obtaining the widget ID of the internally created tear-off control in a
tear-off menu.
.PP
RowColumn creates a tear-off control for a PulldownMenu or PopupMenu
when the \fIXmNtearOffModel\fP resource is initialized or set to
\fIXmTEAR_OFF_ENABLED\fP.
The tear-off control is a widget that appears as the first element in
the menu.
The user tears off the menu by means of mouse or keyboard events in the
tear-off control.
.PP
The tear-off control has Separator-like behavior.
Once the application has obtained the widget ID of the tear-off control,
it can set resources to specify the appearance of the control.
The application or user can also set these resources in a resource file
by using the name of the control, which is "TearOffControl".
For a list of the resources the application or user can set, see
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.IP "\fBmenu\fP"
Specifies the widget ID of the RowColumn PulldownMenu or PopupMenu
.PP
For more information on tear-off menus and a complete definition of
RowColumn and its associated resources, see \fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID for the tear-off control, or NULL if no tear-off
control exists.
An application should not assume that the returned widget will be of any
particular class.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.ad
