...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmIsMotifWMRunning 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmIsMotifWMRunning\fP \- A function that determines whether the window manager is running
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmIsMotifWMRunning (\fBshell\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmIsMotifWMRunning\fP lets a user know
whether the Motif Window Manager is
running on a screen that contains a specific widget hierarchy.
This
function first sees whether the \fI_MOTIF_WM_INFO\fP property is present on
the root window of the shell's screen. If it is, its window
field is used to query for the presence of the specified window as a
child of root.
.IP "\fBshell\fP"
Specifies the shell whose screen will be tested for \fImwm\fP's presence.
.nL
.ne 5
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if MWM is running.
