...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListReplacePositions 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListReplacePositions\fP \- A List function that replaces items
in a list based on position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListReplacePositions (\fBwidget, position_list, item_list, item_count\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	*\fBposition_list\fI;
	XmString	*\fBitem_list\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListReplacePositions\fP replaces noncontiguous items
in a list.  The item at each position specified in \fBposition_list\fP
is replaced with the corresponding entry in \fBitem_list\fP.  
When the items are inserted into the list, they are compared with the
current \fIXmNselectedItems\fP list.  Any of the new items that match
items on the selected list appears selected.  A warning message
is displayed if a specified position is invalid; that is, the value is 0,
a negative integer, or a number greater than the number of items
in the list.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget.
.IP "\fBposition_list\fP"
Specifies an array of the positions of items to be replaced.  The
position of the first item in the list is 1; the position of the
second item is 2; and so on.
.IP "\fBitem_list\fP"
Specifies an array of the replacement items.
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in \fBposition_list\fP and
\fBitem_list\fP.
This number must be non-negative.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
