...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListYToPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListYToPos\fP \- A List function that returns the position of the item at a specified y coordinate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int XmListYToPos (\fBwidget, y\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	Position	\fBy\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListYToPos\fP returns the position of the item
at the given y coordinate within the list.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget
.IP "\fBy\fP"
Specifies the y coordinate in the list's coordinate system
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the position of the item at the specified y
coordinate.  A value of 1 indicates the first item in the
list; a value of 2 indicates the second item; and so on.  A
value of 0 indicates that no item exists at the specified
y coordinate.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP and \fIXmListPosToBounds(3X)\fP.
.ad
