...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListAddItems 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListAddItems\fP \- A List function that adds items to the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListAddItems (\fBwidget, items, item_count, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	*\fBitems\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListAddItems\fP adds the specified items to the list at the given
position.
The first \fBitem_count\fP items of the \fBitems\fP array are added to
the list.
When the items are inserted into the list, they are compared with the
current \fIXmNselectedItems\fP list.
If any of the new items matches an item on the selected list, it
appears selected.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List to which an item is added.
.IP "\fBitems\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the items to be added to the list.
.ne 5
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of items in \fBitems\fP.
This number must be non-negative.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the first new item in the list.
A value of 1 makes the first new item the first item in the list; a
value of 2 makes it the second item; and so on.
A value of 0 makes the first new item follow the last item in the list.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
