...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListDeletePositions 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListDeletePositions\fP \- A List function that deletes items
from a list based on an array of positions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListDeletePositions (\fBwidget, position_list, position_count\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	*\fBposition_list\fI;
	int	\fBposition_count\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListDeletePositions\fP deletes noncontiguous
items from a list.  The function deletes all items whose
corresponding positions appear in the \fBposition_list\fP array. 
A warning message is displayed if a specified position is invalid;
that is, the value is 0, a negative integer, or a number greater
than the number of items in the list.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget
.IP "\fBposition_list\fP"
Specifies an array of the item positions to be deleted.  The
position of the first item in the list is 1; the position of
the second item is 2; and so on.
.IP "\fBposition_count\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in the \fBposition_list\fP.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
