...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListItemPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListItemPos\fP \- A List function that returns the position of an item in the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int XmListItemPos (\fBwidget, item\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	\fBitem\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListItemPos\fP returns the position of the first
instance of the specified item in a List.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget
.IP "\fBitem\fP"
Specifies the item whose position is returned
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.P 
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the position in the list of the first instance of the specified
item.
The position of the first item in the list is 1; the position of the
second item is 2; and so on.
This function returns 0 if the item is not found.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
