...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListSelectPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListSelectPos\fP \- A List function that selects an item at a specified position in the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListSelectPos (\fBwidget, position, notify\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
	Boolean	\fBnotify\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListSelectPos\fP highlights a List item at the specified position
and adds it to the list of selected items.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the item to be selected.
A value of 1 indicates that the first item in the list is selected; a
value of 2 indicates that the second item is selected; and so on.
A value of 0 indicates that the last item in the list is selected.
.IP "\fBnotify\fP"
.ne 6
Specifies a Boolean value that when True invokes the selection callback
for the current mode.  From an application interface view, calling this
function with \fBnotify\fP True is indistinguishable from a user-initiated
selection action.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
