...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListDeletePos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListDeletePos\fP \- A List function that deletes an item from a list at a specified position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListDeletePos (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListDeletePos\fP deletes an item at a specified position.
A warning message appears if the position does not exist.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List from which an item is to be deleted.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the item to be deleted.
A value of 1 indicates that the first item in the list is deleted; a
value of 2 indicates that the second item is deleted; and so on.
A value of 0 indicates that the last item in the list is deleted.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
