...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListDeleteItemsPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListDeleteItemsPos\fP \- A List function that deletes items from the list starting at the given position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListDeleteItemsPos (\fBwidget, item_count, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListDeleteItemsPos\fP deletes the specified number of items from
the list starting at the specified position.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List from whose list an item is deleted.
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of items to be deleted.
This number must be non-negative.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position in the list of the first item to be deleted.
A value of 1 indicates that the first deleted item is the first item in
the list; a value of 2 indicates that it is the second item; and so on.
...\" A value of 0 indicates that the first deleted item is the last item in
...\" the list.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
