...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmMainWindow 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmMainWindow\fP \- The MainWindow widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/MainW.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
MainWindow provides a standard layout for the primary window of an
application.  This layout includes a MenuBar, a CommandWindow, a work
region, a MessageWindow, and ScrollBars.  Any or all of these areas are optional.  The
work region and ScrollBars in the MainWindow behave identically to the work
region and ScrollBars in the ScrolledWindow widget.  The user can think of
the MainWindow as an extended ScrolledWindow with an optional MenuBar and
optional CommandWindow and MessageWindow.
.PP 
In a fully-loaded MainWindow, the MenuBar spans the top of the window
horizontally.  The CommandWindow spans the MainWindow horizontally just below
the MenuBar, and the work region lies below the CommandWindow.
The MessageWindow is is below the work region.
Any space remaining below the
MessageWindow is managed in a manner identical to ScrolledWindow.
The behavior of ScrolledWindow can be controlled by the ScrolledWindow
resources.
To create a MainWindow, first create the
work region elements, a MenuBar, a CommandWindow, a MessageWindow, a
horizontal
ScrollBar, and a vertical ScrollBar widget, and then
call \fIXmMainWindowSetAreas\fP with those widget IDs.
.PP 
MainWindow
can also create three Separator widgets that provide a visual separation of
MainWindow's four components.
The user can specify resources in a resource file for the automatically
created gadgets that contain the MainWindow separators.  The name of the
first separator gadget is "Separator1"; the second is "Separator2"; and the
third is "Separator3".
.SS "Classes"
MainWindow inherits behavior and resources from \fICore\fP,
\fIComposite\fP, \fIConstraint\fP, \fIXmManager\fP,
and \fIScrolledWindow\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIxmMainWindowWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXmMainWindow\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.nL
.ne 2i
.P 
.wH
.in -.5i 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmMainWindow Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNcommandWindow	XmCCommandWindow	Widget	NULL	CSG
XmNcommandWindowLocation	XmCCommandWindowLocation	unsigned char	ABOVE (SeeDesc.)	CG
XmNmainWindowMarginHeight	XmCMainWindowMarginHeight	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNmainWindowMarginWidth	XmCMainWindowMarginWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNmenuBar	XmCMenuBar	Widget	NULL	CSG
XmNmessageWindow	XmCMessageWindow	Widget	NULL	CSG
XmNshowSeparator	XmCShowSeparator	Boolean	False	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.IP "\fIXmNcommandWindow\fP"
Specifies the widget to be laid out as the CommandWindow.  This widget
must have been previously created and managed as a child of MainWindow.
.IP "\fIXmNcommandWindowLocation\fP"
Controls the position of the command window.  \fIXmCOMMAND_ABOVE_WORKSPACE\fP
locates the command window between the menu bar and the work window.
\fIXmCOMMAND_BELOW_WORKSPACE\fP locates the command window between the
work window and the message window.
.nL
.ne 10
.IP "\fIXmNmainWindowMarginHeight\fP"
Specifies the margin height on the top and bottom of MainWindow.  This
resource overrides any setting of the
ScrolledWindow resource
\fIXmNscrolledWindowMarginHeight\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNmainWindowMarginWidth\fP"
Specifies the margin width on the right and left sides of MainWindow.  This
resource overrides any setting of the ScrolledWindow resource
\fIXmNscrolledWindowMarginWidth\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNmenuBar\fP"
Specifies the widget to be laid out as the MenuBar.  This widget must
have been previously created and managed as a child of MainWindow.
.IP "\fIXmNmessageWindow\fP"
Specifies the widget to be laid out as the MessageWindow.  This widget
must have been previously created and managed as a child of MainWindow.
The MessageWindow is positioned at the bottom of the MainWindow.
If this value is NULL, no message window is included in the MainWindow.
.IP "\fIXmNshowSeparator\fP"
Displays separators between the components of the MainWindow when set
to True.  If set to False, no separators are displayed.
.SS "Inherited Resources"
MainWindow inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmScrolledWindow Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNclipWindow	XmCClipWindow	Widget	dynamic	G
XmNhorizontalScrollBar	XmCHorizontalScrollBar	Widget	dynamic	CSG
XmNscrollBarDisplayPolicy	XmCScrollBarDisplayPolicy	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNscrollBarPlacement	XmCScrollBarPlacement	unsigned char	XmBOTTOM_RIGHT	CSG
XmNscrolledWindowMarginHeight	XmCScrolledWindowMarginHeight	Dimension	0	N/A
XmNscrolledWindowMarginWidth	XmCScrolledWindowMarginWidth	Dimension	0	N/A
XmNscrollingPolicy	XmCScrollingPolicy	unsigned char	XmAPPLICATION_DEFINED	CG
XmNspacing	XmCSpacing	Dimension	4	CSG
XmNtraverseObscuredCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	CSG
XmNverticalScrollBar	XmCVerticalScrollBar	Widget	dynamic	CSG
XmNvisualPolicy	XmCVisualPolicy	unsigned char	dynamic	G
XmNworkWindow	XmCWorkWindow	Widget	NULL    	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmManager Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialFocus	XmCInitialFocus	Widget	NULL	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmTAB_GROUP	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNstringDirection	XmCStringDirection	XmStringDirection	dynamic	CG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Composite Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Translations"
MainWindow inherits translations from ScrolledWindow.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIComposite(3X)\fP, \fIConstraint(3X)\fP, \fICore(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateMainWindow(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMainWindowSep1(3X)\fP, \fIXmMainWindowSep2(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMainWindowSep3(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMainWindowSetAreas(3X)\fP,
\fIXmManager(3X)\fP, and \fIXmScrolledWindow(3X)\fP
.ad
