...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRemoveProtocolCallback 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRemoveProtocolCallback\fP \- A VendorShell function that removes a callback from the internal list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/Protocols.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmRemoveProtocolCallback (\fBshell, property, protocol, callback, closure\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
	Atom	\fBproperty\fI;
	Atom	\fBprotocol\fI;
	XtCallbackProc	\fBcallback\fI;
	XtPointer	\fBclosure\fI;
.sp \n(PDu
void XmRemoveWMProtocolCallback (\fBshell, protocol, callback, closure\fI)
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
	Atom	\fBprotocol\fI;
	XtCallbackProc	\fBcallback\fI;
	XtPointer	\fBclosure\fI;
.wH
.fi
.ne 8
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRemoveProtocolCallback\fP removes a callback from the internal list.
.PP 
\fIXmRemoveWMProtocolCallback\fP is a convenience interface.
It calls \fIXmRemoveProtocolCallback\fP
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fIWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.IP "\fBshell\fP"
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated
.IP "\fBproperty\fP"
Specifies the protocol property
.IP "\fBprotocol\fP"
Specifies the protocol atom (or an int cast to Atom)
.IP "\fBcallback\fP"
Specifies the procedure to call when a protocol message is received
.IP "\fBclosure\fP"
Specifies the client data to be passed to the callback when it is invoked
.PP 
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fIVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIVendorShell(3X)\fP,
\fIXmInternAtom(3X)\fP, and \fIXmRemoveWMProtocolCallback(3X)\fP.
.ad
