...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmScrollBarGetValues 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmScrollBarGetValues\fP \- A ScrollBar function that returns the ScrollBar's increment values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/ScrollBar.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
.nf
void \fIXmScrollBarGetValues\fI (\fBwidget, value_return,
	slider_size_return, increment_return, page_increment_return\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fB* value_return\fI;
	int	\fB* slider_size_return\fI;
	int	\fB* increment_return\fI;
	int	\fB* page_increment_return\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmScrollBarGetValues\fP returns the
the ScrollBar's increment values.
The scroll region is overlaid with a
slider bar that is adjusted in size and position using the main ScrollBar or
set slider function attributes.
.nL
.ne 6
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ScrollBar widget ID.
.IP "\fBvalue_return\fP"
Returns the ScrollBar's slider position between the
\fIXmNminimum\fP and \fIXmNmaximum\fP resources.
.IP "\fBslider_size_return\fP"
Returns the size of the slider as a value between zero and the absolute
value of \fIXmNmaximum\fP minus \fIXmNminimum\fP.  The size of the slider
varies, depending on how much of the slider scroll area it represents.
.IP "\fBincrement_return\fP"
Returns the amount of increment and decrement.
.IP "\fBpage_increment_return\fP"
Returns the amount of page increment and decrement.
.PP 
For a complete definition of ScrollBar and its associated resources, see
\fIXmScrollBar(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the ScrollBar's increment values.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmScrollBar(3X)\fP.
.ad
