...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmSeparator 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmSeparator\fP \- The Separator widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Separator.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Separator is a primitive widget that
separates items in a display.  Several different
line drawing styles are provided, as well as horizontal or vertical
orientation.
.PP 
The Separator line drawing is automatically
centered within the height of the widget for a horizontal orientation
and centered within the width of the widget for a vertical orientation.
An \fIXtSetValues\fP with a new \fIXmNseparatorType\fP resizes the
widget to its minimal height (for horizontal orientation) or its
minimal width (for
vertical orientation) unless height or width is explicitly set in the
\fIXtSetValues\fP call.
.PP 
Separator does not draw shadows around the separator.
The Primitive resource \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP is used for the
Separator's thickness when \fIXmNseparatorType\fP is \fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP,
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\fP, \fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP, or 
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\fP.
.PP 
Separator does not highlight and allows no traversing.  The primitive
resource \fIXmNtraversalOn\fP is forced to False.
.PP 
The \fIXmNseparatorType\fP of \fIXmNO_LINE\fP provides an escape
to the application
programmer who needs a different style of drawing.
A pixmap the height of the widget can be created and used as the
background pixmap by building an argument list using the
\fIXmNbackgroundPixmap\fP
argument type as defined by \fICore\fP.
Whenever the widget is redrawn,
its background is displayed containing the desired separator drawing.
.SS "Classes"
Separator inherits behavior and resources from \fICore\fP
and \fIXmPrimitive\fP Classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIxmSeparatorWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXmSeparator\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmSeparator Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNmargin	XmCMargin	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNorientation	XmCOrientation	unsigned char	XmHORIZONTAL	CSG
XmNseparatorType	XmCSeparatorType	unsigned char	XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXmNmargin\fP"
For horizontal orientation, specifies the space on the left and right
sides between the border of the Separator and the line drawn.
For vertical orientation, specifies the space on the top and
bottom between the border of the Separator and the line drawn.
.IP "\fIXmNorientation\fP"
Displays Separator vertically or horizontally.
This resource can have values of \fIXmVERTICAL\fP and \fIXmHORIZONTAL\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNseparatorType\fP"
Specifies the type of line drawing to be done in the Separator widget.
.wH
.rS 
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSINGLE_LINE\fP \- single line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmDOUBLE_LINE\fP \- double line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSINGLE_DASHED_LINE\fP \- single-dashed line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmDOUBLE_DASHED_LINE\fP \- double-dashed line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmNO_LINE\fP \- no line.
.nL
.ne 15
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP \- a line whose shadows give the
effect of a line etched into the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP.  For
horizontal orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP
and the bottom shadow is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP.  For
vertical orientation, the left edge is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP
and the right edge is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP \- a line whose shadows give the effect
of an etched line coming out of the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP.  For horizontal
orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP and
the bottom shadow is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP.  For vertical
orientation, the left edge is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP and
the right edge is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\fP \- identical to
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\fP \- identical to
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.wH
.rE
.SS "Inherited Resources"
Separator inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmPrimitive Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightOnEnter	XmCHighlightOnEnter	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightThickness	XmCHighlightThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
.wH
.tH
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmNONE	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	False	G
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for XmSeparator.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fICore(3X)\fP, \fIXmCreateSeparator(3X)\fP,
and \fIXmPrimitive(3X)\fP.
.ad
