...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmSeparatorGadget 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmSeparatorGadget\fP \- The SeparatorGadget widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/SeparatoG.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
SeparatorGadget separates items in a display.
Several
line drawing styles are provided, as well as horizontal or vertical
orientation.
.PP 
Lines drawn within the SeparatorGadget are automatically
centered within the height of the gadget for a horizontal orientation
and centered within the width of the gadget for a vertical orientation.
An \fIXtSetValues\fP with a new \fIXmNseparatorType\fP resizes the
widget to its minimal height (for horizontal orientation) or its
minimal width (for
vertical orientation) unless height or width is explicitly set in the
\fIXtSetValues\fP call.
.PP 
SeparatorGadget does not draw shadows around the separator.
The Gadget resource \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP is used for the
SeparatorGadget's thickness when \fIXmNseparatorType\fP is
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP, \fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\fP,
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP, or \fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\fP.
.PP 
SeparatorGadget does not highlight and allows no traversing.  The Gadget
resource \fIXmNtraversalOn\fP is forced to False.
.SS "Classes"
SeparatorGadget inherits behavior and
resources from \fIObject\fP, \fIRectObj\fP, and \fIXmGadget\fP Classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIxmSeparatorGadgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXmSeparatorGadget\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmSeparatorGadget Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNmargin	XmCMargin	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNorientation	XmCOrientation	unsigned char	XmHORIZONTAL	CSG
XmNseparatorType	XmCSeparatorType	unsigned char	XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXmNmargin\fP"
For horizontal orientation, specifies the space on the left and right sides between the border of
SeparatorGadget and the line drawn.
For vertical
.ne 8
orientation, specifies the space
on the top and bottom between the border
of SeparatorGadget and the line drawn.
.IP "\fIXmNorientation\fP"
Specifies whether SeparatorGadget is displayed vertically or horizontally.
This resource can have values of \fIXmVERTICAL\fP and \fIXmHORIZONTAL\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNseparatorType\fP"
Specifies the type of line drawing to be done in the Separator widget.
.wH
.rS 
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSINGLE_LINE\fP \- single line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmDOUBLE_LINE\fP \- double line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSINGLE_DASHED_LINE\fP \- single-dashed line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmDOUBLE_DASHED_LINE\fP \- double-dashed line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmNO_LINE\fP \- no line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP \- a line whose shadows give the
effect of a line etched into the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP.  For
horizontal orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP
and the bottom shadow is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP.  For
vertical orientation, the left edge is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP
and the right edge is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP \- a line whose shadows give the effect
of an etched line coming out of the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP.  For horizontal
orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP and
the bottom shadow is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP.  For vertical
orientation, the left edge is drawn in \fIXmNbottomShadowColor\fP and
the right edge is drawn in \fIXmNtopShadowColor\fP.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\fP \- identical to
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\fP \- identical to
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.wH
.rE
.SS "Inherited Resources"
SeparatorGadget inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmGadget Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	G
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	G
XmNhighlightOnEnter	XmCHighlightOnEnter	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNhighlightThickness	XmCHighlightThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmNONE	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	G
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	False	G
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
RectObj Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Object Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.SS "Behavior"
XmSeparatorGadget has no behavior.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIObject(3X)\fP, \fIRectObject(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSeparatorGadget(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmGadget(3X)\fP.
.ad
