...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringByteCompare 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringByteCompare\fP \- A compound string function that indicates the results of a byte-by-byte comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmStringByteCompare (\fBs1, s2\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XmString	\fBs1\fI;
	XmString	\fBs2\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringByteCompare\fP
returns a Boolean indicating the results of a byte-by-byte
comparison of two compound strings.
.PP
In general, if two compound strings are created with the same (char *)
string using \fIXmStringCreateLocalized\fP in the same language
environment, the compound strings compare as equal.
If two compound strings are created with the same (char *) string and
the same font list element tag set other than \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP
using \fIXmStringCreate\fP, the strings compare as
equal.
.PP 
In some cases, once a compound string
is put into a widget, that string is converted into an internal form to
allow faster processing.  Part of the conversion process strips out
unnecessary or redundant information.  If an application then does an
\fIXtGetValues\fP to retrieve a compound string from a widget (specifically,
Label and all of its subclasses), it is not guaranteed that the compound
string returned is byte-for-byte the same as the string given to
the widget originally.
.IP "\fBs1\fP"
Specifies a compound string to be compared with \fBs2\fP
.IP "\fBs2\fP"
Specifies a compound string to be compared with \fBs1\fP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if two compound strings are identical byte-by-byte.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized(3X)\fP.
.ad
