...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringInitContext 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringInitContext\fP \- A compound string function that allows applications to read out the content segment by segment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmStringInitContext (\fBcontext, string\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmStringContext	\fB* context\fI;
	XmString	\fBstring\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringInitContext\fP
maintains a context to allow applications to read out the
contents of a compound string segment by segment.  This function establishes
the context for this read out. This context is used when reading
subsequent segments out of the string.
A Boolean status is returned to indicate if the
input string could be parsed.
.IP "\fBcontext\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the allocated context
.IP "\fBstring\fP"
Specifies the string.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the context was allocated
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.ad
