...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringCreateSimple 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringCreateSimple\fP \- A compound string function that creates a compound string in the language environment of a widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringCreateSimple (\fBtext\fI)
.ta .5i 1.25i
.nf
	char	\fB* text\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringCreateSimple\fP creates a compound
string with two components: text and a character set.
It derives the character set from the current language environment.
.PP 
The routine attempts to derive a character set from the value of the
LANG environment variable.
If this does not result in a valid character set, the routine uses a
vendor-specific default.
If the vendor has not specified a different value, this default is
ISO8859-1.
.PP
NOTE:  This routine is obsolete and exists for compatibility with previous
releases.  It has been replaced by \fIXmStringCreateLocalized\fP.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized(3X)\fP.
.ad
