...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextGetInsertionPosition 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextGetInsertionPosition\fP \- A Text function that accesses the position of the insert cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmTextPosition XmTextGetInsertionPosition (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextGetInsertionPosition\fP accesses the insertion cursor position of the
Text widget.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.P 
.ne 6
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an XmTextPosition value that indicates the state of the
\fIXmNcursorPosition\fP resource.  This is an integer number of
characters from the beginning of the text buffer.  The first character
position is 0.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.ad
