...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextCut 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextCut\fP \- A Text function that copies the primary selection to the clipboard and deletes the selected text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmTextCut (\fBwidget, time\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	Time	\fBtime\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextCut\fP copies the primary selected text to the clipboard and
then deletes the primary selected text.
This routine calls the widget's \fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP and
verification callbacks, either \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP or
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP, or both.  If both verification
callback lists are registered, the procedures of the
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP list are executed first and the resulting
data is passed to the \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP callbacks.
.P 
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID.
.IP "\fBtime\fP"
Specifies the server time at which the selection value is to be modified.  This
should be the time of the event which triggered this request.
One source of a valid time stamp is the function \fIXtLastTimestampProcessed()\fP.
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns False if the primary selection is NULL, if the
\fBwidget\fP doesn't own the primary selection, or if the function is
unable to gain ownership of the clipboard selection.  Otherwise, it
returns True.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.ad
