...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextShowPosition 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextShowPosition\fP \- A Text function that forces text at a given position to be displayed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextShowPosition (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmTextPosition	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextShowPosition\fP forces text at the specified position to be
displayed.  If the \fIXmNautoShowCursorPosition\fP resource is True, the
application should also set the insert cursor to this position.
.P 
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the character position to be displayed.  This is an integer
number of characters from the beginning of the text buffer.  The first
character position is 0.
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.ad
