h23453
s 00017/00012/01061
d D 1.6 97/05/12 16:38:11 perry 7 6
c 4050291: updates for -csh and -ksh X-consortium CDE 1.0.10 MR options
e
s 00015/00008/01058
d D 1.5 95/05/22 13:28:32 perry 6 5
c CRT 546, bug 1205372, adding "-c" option
e
s 00004/00001/01062
d D 1.4 95/04/03 15:42:16 ranjitl 5 4
c fixed bug id 1191627 and added info to the NOTES section..
e
s 00000/00000/01063
d D 1.3 94/12/19 02:18:05 ericni 4 3
c Automatic_update_Dec_19_1994_02:11_AM
e
s 00506/00461/00557
d D 1.2 94/12/08 20:08:16 cdesrc 3 1
c Automatic_update_Dec_08_1994_08:03_PM
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d R 1.2 94/12/07 20:10:24 Codemgr 2 1
c SunPro Code Manager data about conflicts, renames, etc...
c Name history : 1 0 cdesrc/doc/cde1/man/man1/dtsearchpath.1xo
e
s 01018/00000/00000
d D 1.1 94/12/07 20:10:23 cdesrc 1 0
c date and time created 94/12/07 20:10:23 by cdesrc
e
u
U
f e 0
t
T
I 1
D 3
.\"--- 
.\"---  dtsearchpath man page
.\"--- 
.\"---  Revision 1.0
.\"---
.\"--- Variable definition section
.\"---
.\" S1 for dtsearchpath
.de S1
\f(CWdtsearchpath\fR
..
.de S2
\f(CWDTMOUNTPOINT\fR
..
.\"---
E 3
I 3
D 6
.TH dtsearchpath 1 "29 Nov, 1994"
E 6
I 6
D 7
.TH dtsearchpath 1 "22 May, 1995"
E 7
I 7
.TH dtsearchpath 1 "12 May, 1997"
E 7
E 6
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
E 3
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
D 3
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtsearchpath 1X "5 August 1994"
.BH "5 August -1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
E 3
D 7
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
D 6
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
E 6
I 6
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
E 6
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
E 7
I 7
.\" (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Novell, Inc.
E 7
.SH NAME
D 3
\f(CWdtsearchpath\fR \- set desktop search paths
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
E 3
I 3
dtsearchpath \- set desktop search paths
E 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 3
\f(CWdtsearchpath\fR [ \f(CW-u\fR \fI\fIusername\fR ] [ \f(CW-v\fR ] 
[ \f(CW-o\fR ]
E 3
I 3
.yS
\f3dtsearchpath\f1 [ \f3-u\f1 \f2\f2username\f1 ] [ \f3-v\f1 ] 
D 6
[ \f3-o\f1 ]
E 6
I 6
D 7
[ \f3-c\f1 ] [ \f3-o\f1 ]
E 7
I 7
[ \f3-o\f1 ] [ \f3-csh\f1 ] [ \f3-ksh\f1 ]
E 7
E 6
.yE
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
D 3
.S1
E 3
I 3
.Cm dtsearchpath
E 3
command line utility
sets local and remote locations that desktop components should 
D 3
search\(emfor Application Manager groups, for filetype and action defintions, 
E 3
I 3
search for Application Manager groups, for filetype and action
defintions, 
E 3
for desktop icons, and for help files.
D 3
.PP
The \f(CW/usr/dt/bin/Xsession\fR startup script sources
E 3
I 3
.P
The \f3/usr/dt/bin/Xsession\f1 startup script sources
E 3
the user's 
D 3
\f(CW$HOME/.dtprofile\fR
script and any scripts located under \f(CW/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d\fR
and \f(CW/usr/dt/config/Xsession.d\fR. After sourcing the \f(CWXsession.d\fR
files, the \f(CWXsession\fR script will invoke
\f(CW/usr/dt/bin/dtsearchpath\fR to 
set and export the environment variables DTAPPSEARCHPATH, DTDATABASESEARCHPATH, DTHELPSEARCHPATH, XMICONSEARCHPATH, and XMICONBMSEARCHPATH (see 
\fIENVIRONMENT\fR below for a more detailed description).
.SS Search Path Syntax
Each of the exported search path variables is supported by, i.e. built from, two comma-separated search path environment variables. For example: DTAPPSEARCHPATH is supported by DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS and DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS. XMICONSEARCHPATH is supported by DTSPSYSICON and DTSPUSERICON.
.PP
The input search path environment variables fall into two categories -
those that support the host:/path syntax and those that do not. If the name of
the input environment variable contains the string 'HOSTS', it will
support host:/path syntax. The syntax for search paths that support
E 3
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dtprofile\f1
script and any scripts located under \f3/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d\f1
and \f3/usr/dt/config/Xsession.d\f1.
After sourcing the \f3Xsession.d\f1
files, the \f3Xsession\f1 script will invoke
\f3/usr/dt/bin/dtsearchpath\f1 to 
set and export the environment variables
.IR DTAPPSEARCHPATH ,
.IR DTDATABASESEARCHPATH ,
.IR DTHELPSEARCHPATH ,
.IR XMICONSEARCHPATH ,
and
.I XMICONBMSEARCHPATH
(see the
\f3ENVIRONMENT\f1 heading in this man page for a more detailed description).
.HU "Search Path Syntax"
Each of the exported search path variables is supported by, that is,
built from, two comma-separated search path environment variables.
For example:
.IR DTAPPSEARCHPATH
is supported by
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
and
.IR DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS .
.I XMICONSEARCHPATH
is supported by
.I DTSPSYSICON
and
.IR DTSPUSERICON .
.P
The input search path environment variables fall into two categories \-
those that support the host:/path syntax and those that do not.
If the name of
the input environment variable contains the string
.IR HOSTS ,
it will
support host:/path syntax.
The syntax for search paths that support
E 3
host:/path is:
D 3
.TP 6
E 3
I 3
.Cs I
E 3
search path element
D 3
.br
\fI\fI[ host \fB|\fI pathname \fB|\fI hostname+pathname ]\fR
.TP 6
E 3
I 3
[ \f2host \f3|\f2 pathname \f3|\f2 hostname+pathname\f1 ]
E 3
host
D 3
.br
.IB <hostname> :
.TP 6
.br
E 3
I 3
<hostname> :
E 3
pathname
D 3
.br
\fB/\fI<absolute path>\fR
.PP
E 3
I 3
/<\f2absolute path\f1>
.Ce
.sp 1
E 3
The syntax for search paths that do not support host:/path is:
D 3
.TP 6
E 3
I 3
.Cs I
E 3
search path element
D 3
.br
\fI\fI[ pathname ]\fR
.TP 6
.br
E 3
I 3
[ \f2pathname\f1 ]
E 3
pathname
D 3
.br
\fB/\fI<absolute path>\fR
.PP
.SS Examples
E 3
I 3
/<\f2absolute path\f1>
.Ce
.HU Examples
E 3
To set the Icon search path to include the
D 3
\f(CW/usr/local/games/icons\fR subdirectory, 
E 3
I 3
\f3/usr/local/games/icons\f1 subdirectory, 
E 3
the following line would appear
D 3
in a script in the \f(CW/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/\fR subdirectory:
.P
.in +5
\f(CWDTSPSYSICON=/usr/local/games/icons\fR
.in -5
.P
To set the Database search path to include host \f(CWmarlin\fR,
E 3
I 3
in a script in the \f3/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/\f1 subdirectory:
.br
\f3DTSPSYSICON=/usr/local/games/icons\f1
.sp 1
To set the Database search path to include host \f3marlin\f1,
E 3
the following line would appear
D 3
in a script in the \f(CW/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/\fR subdirectory:
.P
.in +5
\f(CWDTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS=marlin:\fR
.in -5
.P
E 3
I 3
in a script in the \f3/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/\f1 subdirectory:
.br
\f3DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS=marlin:\f1
.sp 1
E 3
To set the Application Manager path to include the applications on host
D 3
steelhead under subdirectory \f(CW/usr/local\fR, and under the default
help location on host \f(CWhalibut\fR,
E 3
I 3
steelhead under subdirectory \f3/usr/local\f1, and under the default
help location on host \f3halibut\f1,
E 3
the following line would appear
D 3
in a script in the \f(CW/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/\fR subdirectory:
.P
.in +5
\f(CWDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=steelhead:/usr/local,halibut:\fR
.in -5
.P
.S1
E 3
I 3
in a script in the \f3/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/\f1 subdirectory:
.br
\f3DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=steelhead:/usr/local,halibut:\f1
.sp 1
The
.B dtsearchpath
command line utility
E 3
parses these path elements and transforms them into a form suitable
for the desktop components.
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
If a 
D 3
.I host
E 3
I 3
.B host
E 3
element is included,
D 3
then the Tooltalk library's filename mapping capabilities will control how
a path to files on that host are constructed.  
E 3
I 3
then the Tooltalk library's filename mapping capabilities will
control how
a path to files on that host are constructed.
E 3
For example, the path to file 
D 3
\f(CW/tmp/file\fR on host \f(CWgoby\fR may be constructed
as \f(CW/net/goby/tmp/file\fR or as \f(CW/nfs/goby/tmp/file\fR.
.SS Default Locations
E 3
I 3
\f3/tmp/file\f1 on host \f3goby\f1 may be constructed
as \f3/net/goby/tmp/file\f1 or as \f3/nfs/goby/tmp/file\f1.
.HU "Default Locations"
E 3
By default, 
D 3
.S1
sets up three search locations for each subsystem.  In search 
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
sets up three search locations for each subsystem.
In search 
E 3
order, they are:
D 3
.P
.in +5
The user's personal location, under \f(CW$HOME/.dt\fR.
.in -5
.P
.in +5
E 3
I 3
.VL
.LI \(bu
The user's personal location, under \f3$HOME/.dt\f1.
.LI \(bu
E 3
The system administrator's configuration location, under 
D 3
\f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig\fR.
.in -5
.P
.in +5
The factory default location, under \f(CW/usr/dt/appconfig\fR.
.in -5
.SS Precedence
E 3
I 3
\f3/etc/dt/appconfig\f1.
.LI \(bu
The factory default location, under \f3/usr/dt/appconfig\f1.
.LE
.HU Precedence
E 3
When searching a path for a particular item, such as an icon file, the 
D 3
desktop will always be satisfied by the first item found.  For example,
E 3
I 3
desktop will always be satisfied by the first item found.
For example,
E 3
when searching for an icon whose basename is
D 3
\f(CWbeeper\fR,
E 3
I 3
\f3beeper\f1,
E 3
if that icon exists in both the 
D 3
\f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig/icons\fR
E 3
I 3
\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/icons\f1
E 3
and the
D 3
\f(CW/usr/dt/appconfig/icons\fR subdirectories,
E 3
I 3
\f3/usr/dt/appconfig/icons\f1 subdirectories,
E 3
then the icon under
D 3
\f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig/icons\fR
E 3
I 3
\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/icons\f1
E 3
will be found first and used, because that
element appears first in the 
D 3
\f(CWXMICONSEARCHPATH\fR.
E 3
I 3
\f2XMICONSEARCHPATH\f1.
E 3
The search terminates when the first match occurs.
D 3
.PP
Each of the \f(CWDTSPSYS\fR search path environment variables has a
corresponding \f(CWDTSPUSER\fR environment variable which will take
precedence over the system setting.  The \f(CWDTSPUSER\fR values will
be \fIprepended\fR to the \f(CWDT\fR search path whereas the
\f(CWDTSPSYS\fR values will come after the $HOME/.dt
configuration location but before the factory default location. 
E 3
I 3
.P
Each of the \f2DTSPSYS\f1 search path environment variables has a
corresponding \f2DTSPUSER\f1 environment variable which will take
precedence over the system setting.
The \f2DTSPUSER\f1 values will
be prepended to the \f3DT\f1 search path whereas the
\f2DTSPSYS\f1 values will come after the
.B $HOME/.dt
configuration location but before the factory default location.
E 3
The relationship between the system administrator's customization and the
D 3
default /etc/dt configuration location is up to the user of the 
\f(CWDTSPSYS\fR value.
E 3
I 3
default \f3/etc/dt\f1 configuration location is up to the user of the 
\f2DTSPSYS\f1 value.
E 3
.SH OPTIONS
D 3
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
E 3
I 3
.VL 15
.LI "\f3\-u  user\f1"
E 3
Causes
D 3
.S1
to return the search paths for the specified user.  This option is useful
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
to return the search paths for the specified user.
This option is useful
E 3
for system administrators who need to understand the search paths for
a particular user.
D 3
.TP
.B \-v
E 3
I 3
.LI \f3\-v\f1
E 3
The verbose option causes
D 3
.S1
to print to standard output the values of the search environment.  By
default, the command runs silently.
.TP
.B \-o
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
D 6
to print to standard output the values of the search environment.
By default, the command runs silently.
E 6
I 6
to print to standard output values of the search environment better formated 
for viewing by human eye.  By default, the command instead returns values 
suitable for evaluation by a Bourne Shell script.
D 7
.LI \f3\-c\f1
E 7
I 7
.LI \f3\-ksh\f1
The K-shell option causes
.B dtsearchpath
to print to standard output values of the search environment suitable
for evaluation by a K-shell or Bourne Shell script (this is the default 
behavior for dtsearchpath). 
.LI \f3\-csh\f1
E 7
The C-shell option causes
.B dtsearchpath
to print to standard output values of the search environment suitable
D 7
for evaluation by a C-shell script.  By default, the command instead returns
values suitable for evaluation by a Bourne Shell script.  The C-shell option is
available on all Sun CDE releases.  However note, the option was added after 
the CDE Sample Implementation, so non-Sun releases of CDE may not yet 
implement this option.
E 7
I 7
for evaluation by a C-shell script.  Note: a "-c" option is also accepted by
dtsearchpath for compatibility with earlier Sun CDE 1.0 and CDE 1.0.x releases.
The option "-csh" became the a vendor standard after CDE 1.0.x had been 
released.
E 7
E 6
.LI \f3\-o\f1
E 3
The don't-optimize option causes
D 3
.S1
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
E 3
to add a path to the search path even if the path does not exist.
D 3
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 15
0
E 3
I 3
.LE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.VL 15
.LI 0
E 3
Command completed successfully.
D 3
.TP 15
1
E 3
I 3
.LI 1
E 3
Command invoked with incorrect usage.
I 3
.LE
E 3
.SH ENVIRONMENT
D 3
.LP
E 3
The values set by 
D 3
.S1
are passed through to the individual desktop subsystems, such as the action
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
are passed through to the individual desktop subsystems, such as
the action
E 3
database and the help system, by means of environment variables.
D 3
.PP
The \f(CWDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS\fR variable is the primary environment
E 3
I 3
.P
The \f2DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS\f1 variable is the primary environment
E 3
variable and drives the remaining search paths for filetypes and
actions, for desktop icons, and for help files.
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
In the following list, all values are derived from three places:  the
D 3
user's $HOME directory (\f(CW$HOME/.dt\fR),
the system configuration directory (\f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig\fR),
and the factory defaults directory (\f(CW/usr/dt/appconfig\fR).
E 3
I 3
user's \f3$HOME\f1 directory (\f3$HOME/.dt\f1),
the system configuration directory (\f3/etc/dt/appconfig\f1),
and the factory defaults directory (\f3/usr/dt/appconfig\f1).
E 3
The values are listed as tranformed for the individual desktop
subsystems.
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
To verify these values, execute
D 3
.S1
with the verbose (\fB-v\fR) option.
.TP 5
.SM "DTAPPSEARCHPATH, DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS, DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS"
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
with the verbose (\f3-v\f1) option.
.sp 1
.IR DTAPPSEARCHPATH ,
.IR DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS ,
.IR DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS :
E 3
Used to discover application hosts and their registry subdirectories.
The default transformed value is:
D 3
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/appmanager
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager
.br
E 3
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\fR
.PP
.in +5
Where '%L' is the value of the LANG environment variable.
.PP
.in +5
The value of DTAPPSEARCHPATH can be altered by either of two
environment variables: DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS and/or DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS.
DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS is for use by system administrators. Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\f1
.br
Where \f3%L\f1 is the value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.P
The value of
.I DTAPPSEARCHPATH
can be altered by either of two
environment variables:
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
and/or
.IR DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS .
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
is for use by system administrators.
Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the
.B /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
directory that exports the variable.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=marlin:,goby:/vipapps,/opt
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The expected syntax for DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS is a comma-separated list.
DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS accepts host:, host:/path, or just /path.  The effect
E 3
I 3
.br
The expected syntax for
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
is a comma-separated list.
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
accepts host:, host:/path, or just /path. 
The effect
E 3
is to insert a searchpath after the configuration location 
D 3
(/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager) and before the factory default location
(/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager).
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/appmanager
E 3
I 3
(\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager\f1) and before the factory default location
(\f3/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager\f1).
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager
.br
E 3
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/nfs/marlin/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/nfs/marlin/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/nfs/goby/vipapps/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/nfs/goby/vipapps/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/opt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/opt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\fR
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\f1
.sp 1
E 3
If the system administrator wants the local configuration directory to
appear in a different location within the configurable search paths,
the special host term 'localhost:' can be inserted anywhere into the
environment variable:
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=marlin:,localhost:,goby:/vipapps,/opt
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The resulting value for DTAPPSEARCHPATH would be:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/appmanager
E 3
.br
I 3
The resulting value for
.I DTAPPSEARCHPATH
would be:
.br
\f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager
.br
E 3
/nfs/marlin/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/nfs/marlin/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/nfs/goby/vipapps/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/nfs/goby/vipapps/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/opt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/opt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\fR
.PP
.in +5
In fact, the value 'localhost:' can be inserted anywhere in the DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
value and its order within the DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS will be reflected in the 
DTAPPSEARCHPATH value.
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS is for use by end users. Values are specified by exporting
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\f1
.sp 1
In fact, the value 'localhost:' can be inserted anywhere in the
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
value and its order within the
.I DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS
will be reflected in the 
.I DTAPPSEARCHPATH
value.
.br
.I DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS
is for use by end users.
Values are specified by exporting
E 3
the value in the user's .dtprofile.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS=appsvr:,/myapps
D 3
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS also accepts host:, host:/path, and /path
specifications. The effect is to insert a searchpath before any other
E 3
I 3
.br
.I DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS
also accepts host:, host:/path, and /path
specifications.
The effect is to insert a searchpath before any other
E 3
searchpath.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW/nfs/appsvr/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3/nfs/appsvr/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
E 3
/nfs/appsvr/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/myapps/appmanager/%L
.br
/myapps/appmanager/C
.br
$HOME/.dt/appmanager
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\fR
.TP 10
.SM "DTDATABASESEARCHPATH, DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS, DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS"
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C\f1
.sp 1
.IR DTDATABASESEARCHPATH ,
.IR DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS ,
.IR DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS :
.br
E 3
Used to collect filetype and action definitions, as expressed in
D 3
\f(CW*.dt\fR files.  The default transformed value is:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/types
E 3
I 3
\f3*.dt\f1 files.
The default transformed value is:
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/types
.br
E 3
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\fR
.PP
.in +5
Where '%L' is the value of the LANG environment variable.
.PP
.in +5
The value of DTDATABASESEARCHPATH can be altered by either of two
environment variables: DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS and/or DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS.
DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS is for use by system administrators. Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\f1
.br
Where \f3%L\f1 is the value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.P
The value of
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
can be altered by either of two
environment variables:
.I DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS
and/or
.IR DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS .
.br
.I DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS
is for use by system administrators.
Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the \f3/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d\f1
E 3
directory that exports the variable.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS=marlin:,goby:/vipapps,/opt
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The expected syntax for DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS is a comma-separated
list.  DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS accepts host:, host:/path, or just /path.
E 3
I 3
.br
The expected syntax for
.I DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS
is a comma-separated
list.
.I DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS
accepts host:, host:/path, or just /path.
E 3
The effect is to insert a searchpath after the configuration location
D 3
(/etc/dt/appconfig/types) and before the factory default location
(/usr/dt/appconfig/types).
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/types
E 3
I 3
(\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/types\f1) and before the factory default location
(\f3/usr/dt/appconfig/types\f1).
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/types
.br
E 3
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
marlin:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
marlin:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
goby:/vipapps/appconfig/types/%L
.br
goby:/vipapps/appconfig/types/C
.br
/opt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
/opt/appconfig/types/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\fR
.PP
.in +5
As is the case for DTAPPSEARCHPATH, the placement of the local configuration
directory can be affected by the adding special host term 'localhost:' to the
DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS environment variable.
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\f1
.sp 1
As is the case for
.IR DTAPPSEARCHPATH ,
the placement of the local configuration
directory can be affected by the adding special host term 'localhost:'
to the
.I DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS
environment variable.
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS=marlin:,localhost:,goby:/vipapps
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The resulting value for DTDATABASESEARCHPATH would be:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/types
E 3
.br
I 3
The resulting value for
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
would be:
.br
\f3$HOME/.dt/types
.br
E 3
marlin:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
marlin:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
goby:/vipapps/appconfig/types/%L
.br
goby:/vipapps/appconfig/types/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\fR
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS is for use by end users. Values are specified by
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\f1
.P
.I DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS
is for use by end users.
Values are specified by
E 3
exporting the value in the user's .dtprofile.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
export DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS=dbsvr:,/mytypes
D 3
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS also accepts host:, host:/path, and /path
specifications. The effect is to insert a searchpath before any other
E 3
I 3
.br
.I DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS
also accepts host:, host:/path, and /path
specifications.
The effect is to insert a searchpath before any other
E 3
searchpath.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
\f(CWdbsvr:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3dbsvr:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
E 3
dbsvr:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
/mytypes/types/%L
.br
/mytypes/types/C
.br
$HOME/.dt/types
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\fR
.TP 10
.SM "XMICONSEARCHPATH, XMICONBMSEARCHPATH, DTSPSYSICON, DTSPUSERICON"
.PP
.in +5
Used to locate desktop icons. The default transformed value is:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C\f1
.sp 1
.IR XMICONSEARCHPATH ,
.IR XMICONBMSEARCHPATH ,
.IR DTSPSYSICON ,
.IR DTSPUSERICON :
E 3
.br
I 3
Used to locate desktop icons.
The default transformed value is:
.br
\f3$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
.br
E 3
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.bm
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B
D 3
.PP
.in +5
Where '%B' is the basename of the requested icon, '%M' is the magnitude 
(size) of the icon, and '%L' is the value of the LANG environment variable.
.PP
.in +5
The value of XMICONSEARCHPATH can be altered by either of two
environment variables: DTSPSYSICON and/or DTSPUSERICON.
DTSPSYSICON is for use by system administrators. Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
I 3
.P
Where
.B %B
is the basename of the requested icon,
.B %M
is the magnitude 
(size) of the icon, and
.B %L
is the value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.P
The value of
.I XMICONSEARCHPATH
can be altered by either of two
environment variables:
.I DTSPSYSICON
and/or
.IR DTSPUSERICON .
.I DTSPSYSICON
is for use by system administrators.
Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the
.B /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
directory that exports the variable.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPSYSICON=/vipapps/icons
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The expected syntax for DTSPSYSICON is a comma-separated list.
DTSPSYSICON accepts the /path format.  The effect
E 3
I 3
.P
The expected syntax for
.I DTSPSYSICON
is a comma-separated list.
.I DTSPSYSICON
accepts the /path format.
The effect
E 3
is to insert a searchpath after the configuration location 
D 3
(/etc/dt/appconfig/icons) and before the factory default location
(/usr/dt/appconfig/icons).
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
E 3
I 3
(\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/icons\f1) and before the factory default location
(\f3/usr/dt/appconfig/icons\f1).
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
.br
E 3
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.bm
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M
.br
/vipapps/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/vipapps/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/vipapps/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/vipapps/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/vipapps/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/vipapps/icons/C/%B%M
.br
usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M.bm
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M\fR
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M\f1
.P
E 3
The placement of the local configuration directory can be affected by
D 3
the adding the path term /etc/dt/appconfig to the DTSPSYSICON
E 3
I 3
the adding the path term
.B /etc/dt/appconfig
to the
.I DTSPSYSICON
E 3
environment variable.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
export DTSPSYSICON=/vipapps/icons,/etc/dt/appconfig
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The resulting value for XMICONSEARCHPATH would be:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
E 3
I 3
.P
The resulting value for
.I XMICONSEARCHPATH
would be:
.P
\f3$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
E 3
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.bm
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M
.br
/vipapps/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/vipapps/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/vipapps/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/vipapps/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/vipapps/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/vipapps/icons/C/%B%M
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M
.br
usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M.bm
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M\fR
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERICON is for use by end users. Values are specified by
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M\f1
.sp 1
.I DTSPUSERICON
is for use by end users.
Values are specified by
E 3
exporting the value in the user's .dtprofile.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
export DTSPUSERICON=$HOME/myicons
D 3
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERICON accepts /path specifications. The effect is to insert a
E 3
I 3
.P
.I DTSPUSERICON
accepts /path specifications.
The effect is to insert a
E 3
searchpath before any other searchpath.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/myicons/%B%M.pm
E 3
I 3
.P
\f3$HOME/myicons/%B%M.pm
E 3
.br
$HOME/myicons/%B%M.bm
.br
$HOME/myicons/%B%M
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.pm
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M.bm
.br
$HOME/.dt/icons/%B%M
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M.bm
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C/%B%M
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M.bm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/%L/%B%M
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M.pm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M.bm
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M\fR
.TP 10
.SM "DTHELPSEARCHPATH, DTSPSYSHELP, DTSPUSERHELP"
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/%B%M\f1
.sp 1
.IR DTHELPSEARCHPATH ,
.IR DTSPSYSHELP ,
.IR DTSPUSERHELP :
.P
E 3
Used to locate help volumes and families for the desktop help
D 3
subsystem. The default transformed value is:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
E 3
I 3
subsystem.
The default transformed value is:
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
.br
E 3
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.hv
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\fR
.PP
.in +5
Where '%H' is the basename of the requested help volume, and '%L' is the 
value of the LANG environment variable.
.PP
.in +5
The value of DTHELPSEARCHPATH can be altered by either of two
environment variables: DTSPSYSHELP and/or DTSPUSERHELP.
DTSPSYSHELP is for use by system administrators. Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\f1
.P
Where
.B %H
is the basename of the requested help volume, and
.B %L
is the 
value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.P
The value of
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
can be altered by either of two
environment variables:
.I DTSPSYSHELP
and/or
.IR DTSPUSERHELP .
.I DTSPSYSHELP
is for use by system administrators.
Values are
specified by adding a ksh script to the
.B /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d
E 3
directory that exports the variable.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
export DTSPSYSHELP=/vipapps/help
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The expected syntax for DTSPSYSHELP is a comma-separated list.
DTSPSYSHELP accepts the /path format.  The effect
E 3
I 3
.P
The expected syntax for
.I DTSPSYSHELP
is a comma-separated list.
.I DTSPSYSHELP
accepts the /path format.
The effect
E 3
is to insert a searchpath after the configuration location 
D 3
(/etc/dt/appconfig/help) and before the factory default location
(/usr/dt/appconfig/help).
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
E 3
I 3
(\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/help\f1) and before the factory default location
(\f3/usr/dt/appconfig/help\f1).
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
.br
E 3
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.hv
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv
.br
/vipapps/help/%L/%H
.br
/vipapps/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/vipapps/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/vipapps/help/C/%H
.br
/vipapps/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
/vipapps/help/C/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\fR
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\f1
.sp 1
E 3
The placement of the local configuration directory can be affected by
D 3
the adding the path term /etc/dt/appconfig to the DTSPSYSHELP
E 3
I 3
the adding the path term \f3/etc/dt/appconfig\f1
to the
.I DTSPSYSHELP
E 3
environment variable.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
export DTSPSYSHELP=/vipapps/help,/etc/dt/appconfig
D 3
.PP
.in +5
The resulting value for DTHELPSEARCHPATH would be:
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
E 3
I 3
.P
The resulting value for
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
would be:
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
.br
E 3
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.hv
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv
.br
/vipapps/help/%L/%H
.br
/vipapps/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/vipapps/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/vipapps/help/C/%H
.br
/vipapps/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
/vipapps/help/C/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\fR
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERHELP is for use by end users. Values are specified by
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\f1
.sp 1
.I DTSPUSERHELP
is for use by end users.
Values are specified by
E 3
exporting the value in the user's .dtprofile.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
export DTSPUSERHELP=$HOME/myhelp
D 3
.PP
.in +5
DTSPUSERHELP accepts /path specifications. The effect is to insert a
E 3
I 3
.P
.I DTSPUSERHELP
accepts /path specifications.
The effect is to insert a
E 3
searchpath before any other searchpath.
D 3
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/myhelp/%H
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/myhelp/%H
.br
E 3
$HOME/myhelp/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/myhelp/%H.hv
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/<session>/%H.hv
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
z.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\fR
.PP
.in +5
(See also \fIOPTIMIZATIONS\fR below.)
.PP
.in +5
At the conclusion of \f(CWdtsearchpath\fR, then \f(CWDTSPSYS\fR and
\f(CWDTSPUSER\fR variables are explicitly unset, so that only the
\f(CWDT*SEARCHPATH\fR values remain.
.TP 10
.SM "MANPATH, DTMANPATH"
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\f1
.P
(See also the \f3OPTIMIZATIONS\f1 heading in this man page.)
.P
At the conclusion of \f3dtsearchpath\f1, \f2DTSPSYS\f1 and
\f2DTSPUSER\f1 variables are explicitly unset, so that only the
\f2DT*SEARCHPATH\f1 values remain.
.sp 1
.IR MANPATH ,
.IR DTMANPATH :
.br
E 3
In addition to setting the application search paths,
D 3
.S1
augments the \f(CWMANPATH\fR environment variable with the path to the
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
augments the \f2MANPATH\f1 environment variable with the path to the
E 3
CDE man pages,
.B /usr/dt/man.
D 3
For example, if the value of \f(CWMANPATH\fR prior to execution of:
.S1
E 3
I 3
For example, if the value of \f2MANPATH\f1 prior to execution of:
.B dtsearchpath
E 3
is
D 3
.PP
.in +10
/net/manserver/usr/man:/usr/man
.PP
.in +5
E 3
I 3
.br
\f3/net/manserver/usr/man:/usr/man\f1
.br
E 3
then the augmented value will be:
D 3
.PP
.in +10
/usr/dt/man:/net/manserver/usr/man:/usr/man.
.PP
.in +5
If the \f(CWMANPATH\fR environment variable is not set prior to the
E 3
I 3
.br
\f3/usr/dt/man:/net/manserver/usr/man:/usr/man\f1.
.sp 1
If the \f2MANPATH\f1 environment variable is not set prior to the
E 3
invocation of
D 3
.S1
, the system-defined default value of \f(CWMANPATH\fR will be included in the
augmented \f(CWMANPATH\fR value. For example, if the system-defined 
E 3
I 3
.BR dtsearchpath ,
the system-defined default value of \f2MANPATH\f1 will be included in the
augmented \f2MANPATH\f1 value.
For example, if the system-defined 
E 3
default value is:
D 3
.PP
.in +10
/usr/man:/usr/local/man
.PP
.in +5
then,
.S1
will generate a \f(CWMANPATH\fR value of:
.PP
.in +10
/usr/dt/man:/usr/man:/usr/local/man
.PP
E 3
I 3
.br
\f3/usr/man:/usr/local/man\f1
.br
then
.B dtsearchpath
will generate a \f2MANPATH\f1 value of:
.br
\f3/usr/dt/man:/usr/man:/usr/local/man\f1
E 3
.SH LOCALES
D 3
Each of the search path elements contain a path that references the LANG variable using the %L construct.  When the user
E 3
I 3
Each of the search path elements contain a path that references the
.I LANG
variable using the
.B %L
construct.
When the user
E 3
selects a different language from the greeting screen and logs in, the
D 3
search path will already be set up.  At the same time, the
E 3
I 3
search path will already be set up.
At the same time, the
E 3
factory defaults are still included, but after the localized elements.
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
For example, if the user chooses
the german locale
from the greeting screen, then his/her
D 3
\f(CWDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fR
will already include these elements, as specified by the \f(CW$LANG\fR value
E 3
I 3
\f2DTDATABASESEARCHPATH\f1
will already include these elements, as specified by the \f2LANG\f1 value
E 3
set at session startup:
D 3
.PP
.in +10
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/types
E 3
.br
I 3
\f3$HOME/.dt/types
.br
E 3
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/%L
.br
D 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C \fR
.in -10
.PP
(See also \fIOPTIMIZATIONS\fR below.)
.PP
Note that the search path does \fInot\fR use locales under the user's 
\f(CW$HOME\fR directory.  Whether the user adds personal icons under
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/icons\fR or personal applications under 
\f(CW$HOME/.dt/appmanager\fR, they will be found regardless of the language
E 3
I 3
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C \f1
.P
(See also the \f3OPTIMIZATIONS\f1 heading in this man page.)
.P
Note that the search path does not use locales under the user's 
\f3$HOME\f1 directory.
Whether the user adds personal icons under
\f3$HOME/.dt/icons\f1 or personal applications under 
\f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager\f1, they will be found regardless of the language
E 3
selected at login.
.SH OPTIMIZATIONS
Before exporting the search paths to the user's environment,
D 3
.S1
first checks to ensure that each subdirectory exists.  If a directory
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
first checks to ensure that each subdirectory exists.
If a directory
E 3
does not exist at login, then that element will not be added to the
user's search path, to save needless file system accesses by the
desktop components.
.SH FILES
D 3
.PD 0
.TP 20
\f(CW$HOME/.dtprofile\fR
Enables setting of the user's DTSPUSER environment variables.
.PD
.PD 0
.TP 20
\f(CWXsession.d/*\fR
Enables setting of the system DTSPSYS environment variables.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtappgather (1).
E 3
I 3
.VL 15
.LI \f3$HOME/.dtprofile\f1
Enables setting of the user's
.I DTSPUSER
environment variables.
.LI \f3Xsession.d/*\f1
Enables setting of the system
.I DTSPSYS
environment variables.
.LE
E 3
.SH NOTES
D 3
.LP
E 3
In order to inject the values from
D 3
.S1
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
E 3
into the user's environment, the command must be
D 3
\fIeval'd\fR,
E 3
I 3
\f2eval'd\f1,
E 3
as is done by the 
D 3
\f(CWXsession\fR
E 3
I 3
\f3Xsession\f1
E 3
login script. 
D 3
.PP
.in +10
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
eval `/usr/dt/bin/dtsearchpath`
D 3
.in -10
.PP
E 3
I 3
.sp 1
E 3
Simply running 
D 3
.S1
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
E 3
D 5
from the command line will have no affect on the parent shell.
E 5
I 5
from the command line will have no affect on the parent shell. 
D 6
.P
Output of the command is dependent on the type of shell set to
the SHELL variable.
E 6
E 5
D 3
.PP
E 3
I 3
.P
E 3
It is not possible to affect the DT search paths after logging in.
Components such as the Window Manager and File Manager inherit the
values from
D 3
.S1
by being invoked from the same shell.  Hence, if the system
E 3
I 3
.B dtsearchpath
by being invoked from the same shell.
Hence, if the system
E 3
administrator creates a new search path element for the end user,
D 3
the user will not be able to access it until the next log in.
E 3
I 3
the user will not be able to access it until the next login.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtappgather (1).

E 3
E 1
