.TH Deposit 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Document and Media Exchange Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Deposit.4" "" "Deposit.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Deposit \- save a document to its backing store
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w'[\f2file\fP] Deposit('u
[\f2file\fP] Deposit(in \f2mediaType contents\fP
	[in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Deposit
request saves a document to its backing store.
This request is different from the
.I Save
request in that the requester (not the handler) has the data to be saved.
.PP
The
.I contents
argument
is the contents of the document.
If this argument is unset
(in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ) ,
then the contents of the document are in
the file named in the message's
.I file
attribute.
The data type
.RI ( mediaType )
of the
.I contents
argument should be
.BR string ,
unless nulls are valid in the given media type,
in which case the data type must be
.BR bytes .
.PP
The
.I commission
argument contains the message ID of the
.I Edit
request that caused the creation of this buffer.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttmedia_load (3)
function can be used to register for,
and help process, this message.
.PP
This message can be sent with the
.BR ttmedia_Deposit (3)
function.
.PP
The
.I Deposit
request is useful for cases where the user may perform
an intermediate save of modifications to a document that is the subject of an
.I Edit
or
.I Display
request in progress.
In the latter case, the
.I Deposit
may fail on a
.BR \s-1TT_DESKTOP_EACCES\s+1
error if the handler does not allow updates to the document being displayed.
.PP
Handlers receiving this request should reply before deleting
any file named in the message's
.I file
attribute,
but this is optional
and applications should not rely on this.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Deposit
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EACCES
.br
The document is read-only.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file that was alleged to contain the document does not exist.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENODATA
.br
The in-mode
.I contents
argument had no value and the
.I file
attribute
of the message was not set.
.Lc TT_MEDIA_ERR_FORMAT
.br
The document is not a valid instance of the media type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttmedia_load (3),
.BR ttmedia_Deposit (3);
.IR Intro ,
.IR Display ,
.IR Edit ,
.I Status
requests.
