.TH Display 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Document and Media Exchange Message Sets"
.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Display.4" "" "Display.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Display \- display a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w'[\f2file\fP] Display('u
[\f2file\fP] Display(in \f2mediaType contents\fP
	[in title \f2docName\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Display
request causes the handler to display (present or manifest)
a document to the user.
For example, an audio manipulation utility would be said to
``display'' audio documents when it plays them.
.PP
The handler must decide issues such as:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 3
.LI \(bu
When the display operation can be deemed completed
.LI \(bu
What user gesture signals the completion of the display
.LI \(bu
What the handling tool should do with itself after replying
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The
.I contents
argument
is the contents of the document.
If this argument is unset
(in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ) ,
then the contents of the document are in
the file named in the message's
.I file
attribute.
The data type
.RI ( mediaType )
of the
.I contents
argument should be
.BR string ,
unless nulls are valid in the given media type,
in which case the data type must be
.BR bytes .
.PP
The
.I docName
argument contains the name of the document.
If the
.I docName
argument is absent and the
.I file
attribute is set,
the file name is considered to be the title of the document.
This string would be suitable for display in a window title bar, for example.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3)
function can be used to register for,
and help process, this message.
.PP
This message can be sent with the
.BR ttmedia_load (3)
function.
.PP
When the document to be displayed
is read-only or unlikely to be modified
the
.I Display
message is frequently used instead of the
.I Edit
message.
.SH EXAMPLES
To display a PostScript document, the application can send a
.I Display
request with a first argument whose vtype is
.BR PostScript ,
and whose value is a vector of bytes such as:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
\&%!\en/inch {72 mul} def...
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B \en
in the example represents the newline character.
.PP
To display a PostScript document contained in a file,
the application can send a
.I Display
request with the
.I file
attribute set to that file
and with an unset first argument whose vtype is
.BR PostScript .
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Display
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file that was alleged to contain the document does not exist.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENODATA
.br
The in-mode
.I contents
argument had no value and the
.I file
attribute
of the message was not set.
.Lc TT_MEDIA_ERR_FORMAT
.br
The document is not a valid instance of the media type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3),
.BR ttmedia_load (3);
.IR Intro ,
.IR Deposit ,
.IR Edit ,
.I Status
requests.
