.TH Edit 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Document and Media Exchange Message Sets"
.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Edit.4" "" "Edit.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Edit \- compose or edit a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w'[\f2file\fP] Edit('u
[\f2file\fP] Edit([out\|\(bv\|inout] \f2mediaType contents\fP
	[in title \f2docName\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Edit
request causes the handler to edit a document
and reply with the new contents when the editing is completed.
.PP
It is up to the handler to decide issues such as:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 3
.LI \(bu
When the editing operation can be deemed completed
.LI \(bu
What user gesture signals the completion of the editing
.LI \(bu
What the handling tool should do with itself after replying
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
If the handling tool supports some form of intermediate save operation
during editing,
it must send a
.I Deposit
request back to the tool that requested the
.IR Edit .
.PP
The
.I contents
argument
is the contents of the document.
If this argument is unset
(in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ) ,
then the contents of the document are in
the file named in the message's
.I file
attribute.
The data type
.RI ( mediaType )
of the
.I contents
argument should be
.BR string ,
unless nulls are valid in the given media type,
in which case the data type must be
.BR bytes .
.PP
If the
.I contents
argument is of mode
.BR out ,
then a new document must be composed
and its contents returned in this argument.
.PP
The
.I docName
argument contains the name of the document.
If the
.I docName
argument is absent and the
.I file
attribute is set,
the file name is considered to be the title of the document.
This string would be suitable for display in a window title bar, for example.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3)
function can be used to register for,
and help process, this message.
.PP
This message can be sent with the
.BR ttmedia_load (3)
function.
.SH EXAMPLES
To edit an X11 XBM bitmap, the application can send an
.I Edit
request with a first argument whose vtype is
.BR XBM ,
and whose value is a string such as:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
#define foo_width 44\en#define foo_height 94\en
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B \en
in the example represents the newline character.
.PP
To edit an X11 XBM bitmap contained in a file, the application can send an
.I Edit
request naming that file in its
.I file
attribute,
with a first argument whose vtype is
.BR XBM ,
and whose value is not set.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Edit
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ECANCELED
.br
The user overrode the
.I Edit
request.
When an
.I Edit
request is failed with
.BR \s-1TT_DESKTOP_ECANCELED\s+1 ,
the document should not be updated
as a result, but rather should remain as it was before
the failure reply was received.
.br
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file that was alleged to contain the document does not exist.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENODATA
.br
The in-mode
.I contents
argument had no value and the
.I file
attribute
of the message was not set.
.Lc TT_MEDIA_ERR_FORMAT
.br
The document is not a valid instance of the media type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3),
.BR ttmedia_load (3);
.IR Intro ,
.I Display
requests.
