.TH Get_Locale 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Get_Locale.4" "" "Get_Locale.4o" "" 
.SH NAME
Get_Locale \- get a tool's locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Get_Locale(@u
Get_Locale(in string \f2category\fP,
	out string \f2locale\fP
	[...]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Get_Locale
request
reports the
POSIX
locale of the indicated locale categories.
.PP
The
.I category
argument
is the locale category to get.
A locale category is a
group of data types whose output formatting varies according to
locale in a similar way.
ISO C and locale categories are:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
LC_ALL
LC_COLLATE
LC_CTYPE
LC_MESSAGES
LC_MONETARY
LC_NUMERIC
LC_TIME
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I locale
argument
is the name of the current locale of the indicated category.
The value of
.I locale
is implementation-defined.
For example, Solaris defines such locales as
.BR C ,
.BR de ,
.BR fr ,
.BR it ,
etc.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return the following error
in processing the
.I Get_Locale
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EINVAL
.br
The
.I locale
argument is not valid on the handler's host.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
function can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Get_Locale
request.
.PP
Also,
.I Get_Locale
can be sent by
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (3),
with the reply being handled transparently.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR setlocale (3C)
.I Solaris 2.3 Developer's Guide to Internationalization,
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Set_Locale
request.
