.TH Get_Modified 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Get_Modified.4" "" "Get_Modified.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Get_Modified \- ask whether an entity has been modified
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@[\f2file\fP] Get_Modified(@u
[\f2file\fP] Get_Modified(in \f2type ID\fP,
	out boolean \f2modified\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Get_Modified
request
asks whether any tool has modified a volatile,
non-shared (for example, in-memory) representation of the persistent
state of an entity (such as a file) with the intention of
eventually making that representation persistent.
.PP
Thus, a tool should register a dynamic pattern for this request
when it has modified an entity of possible shared interest.
.PP
The
.I ID
argument is the identity of the persistent entity being asked about.
When its
.I type
is
.BR File ,
then
.I ID
is unset (in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ),
and it refers to the file or directory
named in the message's file attribute.
.PP
The
.I modified
argument
argument is a
Boolean value indicating whether a volatile, non-shared
(for example, in-memory) representation of the entity has been
modified with the intention of eventually making that
representation persistent.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Get_Modified
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_ERR_NO_MATCH
.br
Since no handler could be found, the entity in question can be assumed
not to be modified.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
function
can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Get_Modified
request.
.PP
The
.I Get_Modified
request can be sent with
.BR ttdt_file_request (3);
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (3),
can send the
.I Get_Modified
request and block on the reply.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR ttdt_file_request (3),
.BR ttdt_file_request (3),
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (3);
.I Set_Modified
request.
