.TH Get_Geometry 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Get_Geometry.4" "" "Get_Geometry.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Get_Geometry \- get a tool's on-screen geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Get_Geometry(@u
Get_Geometry(out width \f2w\fP,
	out height \f2h\fP,
	out xOffset \f2x\fP,
	out yOffset \f2y\fP
	[in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Get_Geometry
request
reports the on-screen geometry of the optionally specified
window, or of the window primarily associated with the recipient
procid (if no window is specified).
.PP
The
.IR w ,
.IR h ,
.I x
and
.I y
arguments are integer geometry values, in pixels,
representing width, height, x-coordinate and y-coordinate,
respectively.
Negative offset values
are interpreted according to the
.BR X11 (7)
man page.
.PP
The
.I commission
argument
is the ID of the ongoing request, if any, that resulted in the creation
of the window in question.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
and
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
functions can be used by Xt applications to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Get_Geometry
request.
Also,
.I Get_Geometry
can be sent by
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Set_Geometry
request.
