.TH Get_Status 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Get_Status.4" "" "Get_Status.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Get_Status \- retrieve a tool's current status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Get_Status(@u
Get_Status(out string \f2status\fP,
	out string \f2vendor\fP,
	out string \f2toolName\fP,
	out string \f2toolVersion\fP
	[in messageID \f2operation2Query\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Get_Status
request
retrieves the current status of a tool (or,
optionally, of a specific operation being performed by a tool).
.PP
The
.I status
argument
is the status retrieved.
.PP
The
.I vendor
argument
is the name of the vendor of the handling tool.
.PP
The
.I toolName
argument
is the name of the handling tool.
.PP
The
.I toolVersion
argument
is the version of the handling tool.
.SH OPTIONAL ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.I operation2Query
argument
is the ID of the request that initiated the operation the
status of which is being requested.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
and
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
functions can be used to register for, and
help process, the
.I Get_Status
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
After sending a
.BR \s-1TT_REQUEST\s+1
and storing its handle in
.B Tt_message
.IR request_I_sent ,
if the handler identifies itself with a
.I Status
notice
saved in
.B Tt_message
.IR status_msg_from_handler ,
then the status of
.I request_I_sent
can be queried as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
		tt_message_sender(status_msg_from_handler),
		TTDT_GET_STATUS, my_callback);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string,
			tt_message_id(request_I_sent));
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_message_arg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_id (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR tt_message_sender (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3).
