.TH Get_Sysinfo 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Get_Sysinfo.4" "" "Get_Sysinfo.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Get_Sysinfo \- get information about a tool's host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Get_Sysinfo(@u
Get_Sysinfo(out string \f2sysname\fP,
	out string \f2nodename\fP,
	out string \f2release\fP,
	out string \f2version\fP,
	out string \f2machine\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Get_Sysinfo
request gets information about the handler's host.
.PP
The
.I sysname
argument
is the name of the host's operating system.
.PP
The
.I nodename
argument
is the name of the host.
.PP
The
.I release
and
.I version
arguments are
implementation-specific information about the host's operating system.
.PP
The
.I machine
argument
is an implementation-specific name that identifies the hardware
on which the operating system is running.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
function
can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Get_Sysinfo
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Get_Sysinfo
message can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_GET_SYSINFO,
			my_callback);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR uname (2)
.BR tt_message_arg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3).
