.TH hostname_map 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.IX "hostname_map.4" "" "hostname_map.4" "" 
.SH NAME
hostname_map - tell ToolTalk clients to use a per-host alternative 
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B hostname_map
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A ToolTalk
.B hostname_map
tells ToolTalk clients to use host A's
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M)
as a proxy for host B.  In this way, ToolTalk databases can
be created for filesystems exported from hosts (like host B) that
for whatever reason do not run
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M).
.PP
The
.B hostname_map
file is called "hostname_map" and resides in the same directories
as the ToolTalk types databases; see
.BR tt_type_comp (1).
If $TT_HOSTNAME_MAP is set, it is used
in place of $HOME/.tt/hostname_map.
.PP
ToolTalk clients read the hostname maps when the ToolTalk client
library is initialized in e.g.
.BR tt_open (3).
.BR ttsession
reads the hostname maps upon startup and rereads them if it
receives signal USR2.
.SS Format rules
.PP
The format rules for a
.B hostname_map
are:
.HP 3
1. Any line beginning with a "#" or white-space and a "#" is a comment.
.HP 3
2. Blank lines are comments.
.HP 3
3. Words are delimited by white space.
.HP 3
4. The first word in a non-comment line is the host name from which
to map.
.HP 3
5. The second word in a non-comment line is the host name to which
to map.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM TT_HOSTNAME_MAP
If $TT_HOSTNAME_MAP is set, it is used
in place of $HOME/.tt/hostname_map.
.TP
.SM TTPATH
A colon-separated list of directories in which to seek hostname_maps.
See
.BR tt_type_comp (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example maps "mainframe1" to "sparcstorage":
.IP
.nf
# rpc.ttdbserverd cannot run on filesystems
# exported from mainframe
mainframe1 sparcstorage
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.PP
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M),
.BR ttsession (1),
.BR tt_type_comp (1),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR partition_map (4)
