.TH Mail 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Mail.4" "" "Mail.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Mail \- compose or mail a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w'[\f2file\fP] Mail('u
[\f2file\fP] Mail(in \f2mediaType contents\fP);
.sp 0.5v
[\f2file\fP] Mail([out\|\(bv\|inout] \f2mediaType contents\fP
	[in title \f2docName\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Mail
request causes the handler to route a document to a destination using the
mail message handling system.
The handler is responsible for finding routing information in the document.
.PP
When the
.I contents
argument is of mode
.BR in ,
the handler must deliver the document as is,
without interacting with the user.
.PP
When the
.I contents
argument is of mode
.B inout
or
.BR out ,
the handler must allow the user to compose or edit the document
(and any embedded routing information)
before it is delivered.
If the handling tool supports some form of intermediate ``save''
operation, it must send a
.I Deposit
request back to the tool that initiated the
.I Mail
request.
.PP
The
.I contents
argument
is the contents of the document.
If this argument is unset
(in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ) ,
then the contents of the document are in
the file named in the message's
.I file
attribute.
The data type
.RI ( mediaType )
of the
.I contents
argument should be
.BR string ,
unless nulls are valid in the given media type,
in which case the data type must be
.BR bytes .
.PP
The
.I docName
argument contains the name of the document.
If the
.I docName
argument is absent and the
.I file
attribute is set,
the file name is considered to be the title of the document.
This string would be suitable for display in a window title bar, for example.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3)
function can be used to register for,
and help process, this message.
.PP
This message can be sent with the
.BR ttmedia_load (3)
function.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Mail
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file that was alleged to contain the document does not exist.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENODATA
.br
The in-mode
.I contents
argument had no value and the
.I file
attribute
of the message was not set.
.Lc TT_MEDIA_ERR_FORMAT
.br
The document is not a valid instance of the media type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3),
.BR ttmedia_load (3);
.IR Intro ,
.I Edit
requests.
