.TH partition_map 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.IX "partition_map.4" "" "partition_map.4" "" 
.SH NAME
partition_map - tell 
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M)
to locate its databases in an alternate file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B partition_map
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
For each filesystem that
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
needs to store information about, it creates a directory called
TT_DB at the mountpoint of that file system.  In that directory
it creates the databases it needs to store its tables and indices.
If the partition is not writable, then
.B rpc.ttdbserverd
can be told, via
.BR partition_map (4),
to create the databases in another file system.
.PP
The
.B partition_map
file is called "partition_map" and resides in /etc/tt.
If $TT_PARTITION_MAP is set, it is used
in place of /etc/tt/partition_map.
.PP
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M)
reads the partition map upon startup and rereads the map if it
receives signal USR2.
.SS Format rules
.PP
The format rules for a
.B partition_map
are:
.HP 3
1. Any line beginning with a "#" or white-space and a "#" is a comment.
.HP 3
2. Blank lines are comments.
.HP 3
3. Words are delimited by white space.
.HP 3
4. The first word in a non-comment line is the partition from which
to map.
.HP 3
5. The second word in a non-comment line is the partition to which
to map. Although the TT_DB directories are by default at the root
of their file systems, the user may in fact map to any local filename
that is writeable by UID root.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM TT_PARTITION_MAP
If $TT_PARTITION_MAP is set, it is used
in place of /etc/tt/partition_map.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example maps "/cdrom" to "/usr":
.IP
.nf
# cannot write to /cdrom
/cdrom /usr
.fi
.PP
This example maps "/cdrom" to "/usr/TT_maps/cdrom":
.IP
.nf
# cannot write to /cdrom
/cdrom /usr/TT_maps/cdrom
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.PP
.BR rpc.ttdbserverd (1M),
.BR hostname_map (4)
