.TH Print 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Document and Media Exchange Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Print.4" "" "Print.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Print \- print a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w'[\f2file\fP] Print('u
[\f2file\fP] Print(in \f2mediaType contents\fP,
	in boolean \f2inquisitive\fP,
	in boolean \f2covert\fP
	[in title \f2docName\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Print
request causes the handler to print a document.
The handler must act as if the user had issued,
(via the handler's user interface)
either a ``Print One'' or ``Print...'' command,
depending on the value of the
.I inquisitive
argument.
.PP
The
.I contents
argument
is the contents of the document.
If this argument is unset
(in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ) ,
then the contents of the document are in
the file named in the message's
.I file
attribute.
The data type
.RI ( mediaType )
of the
.I contents
argument should be
.BR string ,
unless nulls are valid in the given media type,
in which case the data type must be
.BR bytes .
.PP
The
.I inquisitive
argument is a
.B boolean
value
indicating whether the handler is allowed to block on user input
while carrying out the request.
However, even if
.I inquisitive
is True, the handler is not required to seek such input.
.PP
The
.I covert
argument is a
.B boolean
value indicating whether the handler may make itself apparent to the user
as it carries out the request.
If False, the recipient need not make itself apparent.
.PP
If both the
.I inquisitive
argument and the
.I covert
argument are True, the recipient should attempt to limit its presence
to the minimum needed to receive any user input desired;
for example, through iconification.
.PP
The
.I docName
argument contains the name of the document.
If the
.I docName
argument is absent and the
.I file
attribute is set,
the file name is considered to be the title of the document.
This string would be suitable for display in a window title bar, for example.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3)
function can be used to register for,
and help process, this message.
.PP
This message can be sent with the
.BR ttmedia_load (3)
function.
.SH EXAMPLES
To print a PostScript document, the application can send a request of the form:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
.ta \w'Print('u
Print(in PostScript \f2contents\fP,
	in boolean \f2inquisitive\fP,
	in boolean \f2covert\fP);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
with a first argument whose value is a vector of bytes such as:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
%!\en/inch {72 mul} def...
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B \en
in the example represents the newline character.
.PP
To print a PostScript document contained in a file,
the application can send the
.I Print
request as above,
with the
.I file
attribute set to the relevant file
and with the value of the first argument not set.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Print
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file that was alleged to contain the document does not exist.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENODATA
.br
The in-mode
.I contents
argument had no value and the
.I file
attribute
of the message was not set.
.Lc TT_MEDIA_ERR_FORMAT
.br
The document is not a valid instance of the media type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3),
.BR ttmedia_load (3);
.IR Intro ,
.I Status
requests.
