.TH Quit 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Quit.4" "" "Quit.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Quit \- terminate an operation or an entire tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Quit(@u
Quit(in boolean \f2silent\fP,
	in boolean \f2force\fP
	[in messageID \f2operation2Quit\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Quit
request
terminates an operation or an entire tool.
Without the optional
.I operation2Quit
argument, this request asks the handling procid to quit.
If the request succeeds, one or more ToolTalk procids should call
.BR tt_close (3),
and zero or more processes should exit.
.PP
With the optional
.I operation2Quit
argument, this request asks the handler to terminate the indicated request.
(Whether the terminated request must therefore be failed
depends on its semantics.
Often, termination can be considered to
mean that the requested operation has been carried out to the
requester's satisfaction.)
.PP
The
.I Quit
request should be failed (and the status code set
appropriately) when the termination is not performed\(emfor
example, because the
.I silent
argument was false and the user canceled the quit.
.PP
The
.I silent
argument affects user notification of termination.
If
.I silent
is True, the handler is not allowed to
block on user input before terminating itself (or the indicated operation).
If it is False, however,
the handler may seek such input.
.PP
The
.I force
argument
is a Boolean value indicating whether the handler should
terminate itself (or the indicated operation) even if circumstances
are such that the tool ordinarily would not perform the termination.
.PP
For example, a tool might have a policy of not quitting with
unsaved changes unless the user has been asked whether the
changes should be saved.
When
.I force
is true, such a tool should terminate even when doing so would lose
changes that the user has not been asked by the tool about saving.
.PP
The
.I operation2Quit
argument
is the request that should be terminated.
For a request to be
terminable, the handler must have sent a
.I Status
notice back to the requester (thus
identifying itself to the requester).
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Quit
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ECANCELED
.br
The user overrode the
.I Quit
request.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOMSG
.br
The
.I operation2Quit
argument does not refer to any message currently known by the handler.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
and
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
functions can be used to register for,
and help process, the
.I Quit
request.
.PP
In the successful case,
``zero or more'' procids
are cited because a single process can instantiate multiple independent
procids, and a single procid can conceivably be implemented by a set
of cooperating processes.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Quit
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_QUIT,
			my_callback);
tt_message_iarg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_boolean, 0);
tt_message_iarg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_boolean, 0);
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Quit
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH BUGS
The
.I silent
argument should have its polarity reversed, to be like the
.I inquisitive
argument of several of the
.B Media
messages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_close (3),
.BR tt_message_iarg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3).
