.TH Raise 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Raise.4" "" "Raise.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Raise \- raise a tool's window(s) to the front
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Raise(@u
Raise([in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Raise
request
raises the window(s) associated with the handling procid.
If any optional arguments are present, then it raises
only the indicated window(s).
.PP
The
.I commission
argument
is the ID of the message, if any, that resulted in the creation
of the window(s) that should be raised.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
and
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
functions can be used by Xt applications to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Raise
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Raise
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_RAISE,
			my_callback);
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Raise
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Lower
request.
