.TH Revert 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Revert.4" "" "Revert.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Revert \- discard any modifications to an entity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@[\f2file\fP] Revert(@u
[\f2file\fP] Revert(in \f2type ID\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Revert
notice
asks that any pending, unsaved modifications to a
persistent entity (such as a file) be discarded.
.PP
The
.I ID
argument is the identity of the entity to revert.
When its
.I type
is
.BR File ,
then the
.I ID
argument is unset (in other words, has a
value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ),
and it refers to the file or directory
named in the message's file attribute.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Revert
notice:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_UNMODIFIED
.br
The entity had no pending, unsaved modifications.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file to save/revert does not exist.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
function can be used to register for,
and help process, the
.I Revert
request.
.PP
The
.I Revert
request can be sent with
.BR ttdt_file_request (3).
Also,
.BR ttdt_Revert (3),
can send the relevant message and block on the reply.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttdt_Revert (3),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR ttdt_file_request (3);
.I Save
notice.
