.TH Set_Mapped 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Set_Mapped.4" "" "Set_Mapped.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Set_Mapped \- set whether a tool is mapped to the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Set_Mapped(@u
Set_Mapped(in boolean \f2mapped\fP
	[in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Mapped
request
sets the mapped state of the optionally specified
window, or of the window primarily associated with the handling
procid (if no window is specified).
.PP
The
.I mapped
argument
is a Boolean value indicating whether the specified window is (to be)
mapped to the screen.
.PP
The
.I commission
argument
is the ID of the ongoing request, if any, that resulted in the creation
of the window in question.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
and
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
functions can be used by Xt applications to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Mapped
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Mapped
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_MAPPED,
			my_callback);
tt_message_iarg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_boolean, 1);
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Set_Mapped
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_message_iarg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Get_Mapped
request.
