.TH Set_Situation 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Set_Situation.4" "" "Set_Situation.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Set_Situation \- set a tool's current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Set_Situation(@u
Set_Situation(in string \f2path\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Situation
request
sets the current working directory.
.PP
The
.I path
argument
is the pathname of the working directory that the recipient should use.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
function can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Situation
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Situation
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_SITUATION,
			my_callback);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_OUT, Tttk_string, 0);
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Set_Situation
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_message_arg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Get_Situation
request.
