.TH Set_Environment 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Set_Environment.4" "" "Set_Environment.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Set_Environment \- set a tool's environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Set_Environment(@u
Set_Environment(in string \f2variable\fP,
	in string \f2value\fP
	[...]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Environment
request
replaces the value of the indicated environment variable(s).
.PP
The
.I variable
argument
is the name of the environment variable to set.
.PP
The
.I value
argument
is the value of the environment variable.
If this argument is unset (in other words, has a
value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ),
then the
variable should be removed from the environment.
It is not
an error for the variable not to have existed in the first place.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
function can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Environment
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Environment
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_ENVIRONMENT,
			my_callback);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string, "PATH");
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string, "/bin:/usr/ucb");
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Set_Environment
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_message_arg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Get_Environment
request.
