.TH Set_Iconified 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Set_Iconified.4" "" "Set_Iconified.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Set_Iconified \- set a tool's iconic state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Set_Iconified(@u
Set_Iconified(out boolean \f2iconic\fP
	[in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Iconified
request
sets the iconic state of the optionally specified
window, or of the window primarily associated with the handling
procid (if no window is specified).
.PP
The
.I iconic
argument
is a Boolean value indicating whether the specified window is (to be)
iconified.
.PP
The
.I commission
argument
is the ID of the ongoing request, if any, that resulted in the creation
of the window(s) in question.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
and
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
functions can be used by Xt applications to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Iconified
request.
.PP
If the handler does not map window-system windows one-to-one to
commissions or procids, then it may interpret ``iconic state'' liberally.
For example, consider a
.I Display
request on an
.B ISO_Latin_1
file, handled by a
.BR gnuemacs 
instance that then devotes an
.BR emacs 
``window'' to the file.
``Windows'' in
.BR gnuemacs 
are not separate X11 windows, and are not separately iconifiable.
However, a
.I Set_Iconified
request issued with respect to the ongoing
.I Display
request could be liberally interpreted by
.BR gnuemacs 
to mean it should
minimize the screen real estate devoted to the operation, perhaps by
``burying'' the buffer or dividing its window's real estate among
neighboring windows.
And, if the
.I Display
request happens to be the only thing
.BR emacs 
is working on at the
moment, it could instead take a literal interpretation, and actually
iconify itself.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Iconified
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_ICONIFIED,
			my_callback);
tt_message_iarg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_boolean, 1);
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Set_Iconified
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_message_iarg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Get_Iconified
request.
