.TH Set_Locale 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Set_Locale.4" "" "Set_Locale.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Set_Locale \- set a tool's locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Set_Locale(@u
Set_Locale(in string \f2category\fP,
	in string \f2locale\fP
	[...]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Locale
request
reports the
POSIX
locale of the indicated locale categories.
.PP
The
.I category
argument
is the locale category to set.
A locale category is a
group of data types whose output formatting varies according to
locale in a similar way.
ISO C and locale categories are:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
LC_ALL
LC_COLLATE
LC_CTYPE
LC_MESSAGES
LC_MONETARY
LC_NUMERIC
LC_TIME
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I locale
argument
is the name of the
locale to set the indicated category to.
The value of
.I locale
is implementation-defined.
For example, Solaris defines such locales as
.BR C ,
.BR de ,
.BR fr ,
.BR it ,
etc.
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return the following error
in processing the
.I Set_Locale
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EINVAL
.br
The
.I locale
argument is not valid on the handler's host.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
function can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Locale
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Locale
request can be sent as in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_LOCALE,
			my_callback);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string, "LC_MONETARY");
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string, "de");
tt_message_send(msg);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.I Set_Locale
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR setlocale (3C)
.I Solaris 2.3 Developer's Guide to Internationalization;
.BR tt_message_arg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3);
.I Get_Locale
request.
