.TH Status 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Status.4" "" "Status.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Status \- a tool has some status information to announce
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Status(@u
Status(in string \f2status\fP,
	in string \f2vendor\fP,
	in string \f2toolName\fP,
	in string \f2toolVersion\fP
	[in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Status
notice
indicates that
a tool has status information to announce.
.PP
The
.I status
argument
is the status being announced.
.PP
The
.I vendor
argument
is the vendor of the sending tool.
.PP
The
.I toolName
argument
is the name of the sending tool.
.PP
The
.I toolVersion
argument
is the version of the sending tool.
.PP
The
.I commission
argument
is the ID of the request, if any, that initiated the operation
the status of which is being announced.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_subcontract_manage (3),
function can be used to register for,
and help process, the
.I Status
request.
.PP
The
.I Status
request can be sent with
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3).
.PP
The
.I Status
notice can be used by handlers of requests invoking protracted
operations to provide periodic point-to-point status reports to the
requester.
Doing so has the nice side effect of identifying the handler to
the requester, so that the requester can issue a
.I Quit
request if it wants to.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3),
.BR ttdt_subcontract_manage (3);
.I Quit
request.
