.TH Stopped 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Desktop Services Message Sets"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Stopped.4" "" "Stopped.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Stopped \- a tool has terminated
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w@Stopped(@u
Stopped(in string \f2vendor\fP,
	in string \f2toolName\fP,
	in string \f2toolVersion\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Stopped
notice announces that
a tool has exited.
.PP
The
.I vendor
argument
is the vendor of the terminated tool.
.PP
The
.I toolName
argument
is the name of the terminated tool.
.PP
The
.I toolVersion
argument
is the version of the terminated tool.
.SH EXAMPLES
A pattern observing the
.I Stopped
request can be registered as
in the following example:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_pattern pat = tt_pattern_create();
tt_pattern_category_set(pat, TT_OBSERVE);
tt_pattern_scope_add(pat, TT_SESSION);
char *ses = tt_default_session();
tt_pattern_session_add(pat, ses);
tt_free(ses);
tt_pattern_op_add(pat, Tttk_Started);
tt_pattern_op_add(pat, Tttk_Stopped);
tt_pattern_callback_add(pat, my_callback);
tt_pattern_register(pat);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
The
.I Stopped
request can be sent with
.BR ttdt_close (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_free (3),
.BR tt_pattern_callback_add (3),
.BR tt_pattern_category_set (3),
.BR tt_pattern_op_add (3),
.BR tt_pattern_register (3),
.BR tt_pattern_scope_add (3),
.BR tt_pattern_session_add (3),
.BR ttdt_close (3);
.I Started
notice.
