.TH Translate 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "Document and Media Exchange Message Sets"
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.BH "1 March 1996" 
.IX "Translate.4" "" "Translate.4" "" 
.SH NAME
Translate \- translate a document from one media type to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
.ta \w'[\f2file\fP] Translate('u
[\f2file\fP] Translate(in \f2mediaType contents\fP,
	out \f2mediaType output\fP,
	in boolean \f2inquisitive\fP,
	in boolean \f2covert\fP
	[in messageID \f2counterfoil\fP]);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Translate
request causes the handler to translate a document from one media type
to another and return the translation.
The translation must be the best possible representation of the document
in the target media type,
even if the resulting representation cannot be exactly translated
back into the original document.
.PP
The
.I contents
argument
is the contents of the document.
If this argument is unset
(in other words, has a value of
.BR (char\ *)0 ) ,
then the contents of the document are in
the file named in the message's
.I file
attribute.
The data type
.RI ( mediaType )
of the
.I contents
argument should be
.BR string ,
unless nulls are valid in the given media type,
in which case the data type must be
.BR bytes .
.PP
The
.I output
argument is the translation of the document.
.PP
The
.I inquisitive
argument is a
.B boolean
value
indicating whether the handler is allowed to block on user input
while carrying out the request.
However, even if
.I inquisitive
is True, the handler is not required to seek such input.
.PP
The
.I covert
argument is a
.B boolean
value indicating whether the handler may make itself apparent to the user
as it carries out the request.
If False, the recipient need not make itself apparent.
.PP
If both the
.I inquisitive
argument and the
.I covert
argument are True, the recipient should attempt to limit its presence
to the minimum needed to receive any user input desired;
for example, through iconification.
.PP
The
.I counterfoil
argument is a unique string created by the message sender
to give both sender and receiver a way to refer to this request
in other correspondence.
Typically this string is created by concatenating a process ID and a counter.
This argument should be included
if the sender anticipates a need to communicate with the handler
about this request before it is completed; for example, to cancel it.
When this argument is included,
and the handler determines that an immediate reply is not possible,
the handler must immediately send at least one
.I Status
notice point-to-point back to the requester,
so as to identify itself to the requester.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
To provide a speech-to-text service, a tool can handle requests of the form:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
.ta \w'Translate('u
Translate(in Sun_Audio \f2contents\fP,
	out ISO_Latin_1 \f2output\fP,
	...);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
To provide an OCR (optical character recognition) service,
a tool can handle requests of the form:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
.ta \w'Translate('u
Translate(in GIF \f2contents\fP,
	out ISO_Latin_1 \f2output\fP,
	...);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return one of the following errors
in processing the
.I Translate
request:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
.br
The file that was alleged to contain the document does not exist.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ENODATA
.br
The in-mode
.I contents
argument had no value and the
.I file
attribute
of the message was not set.
.Lc TT_MEDIA_ERR_FORMAT
.br
The document is not a valid instance of the media type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.IR Intro ,
.IR Abstract ,
.IR Interpret ,
.I Status
requests.
