'\" t
.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.TH ttDesktop 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Policy"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.IX "ttDesktop" "" "ttDesktop.4" ""
.SH NAME
ttDesktop \- introduction to desktop messaging policy
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B Desktop
message policies apply to any tool in
a POSIX or
.BR X11 (7)
environment.  In addition to standard
messages for these environments, the
.B Desktop
policies define data types and error codes that apply
to all of the ToolTalk message policies.
.SH LIST OF MESSAGES
.PP
.TS
tab (/) ;
l l l l l .
 /Do_Command(/in/string/\fIcommand\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIresults\f(CW] );		
 /Set_Environment(/in/string/\fIvariable\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fIvalue\f(CW	
 / / / /[...] );	
 /Get_Environment(/in/string/\fIvariable\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIvalue\f(CW	
 / / / /[...] );	
 /Set_Geometry(/inout/width/\fIw\f(CW	
 / /inout/height/\fIh\f(CW	
 / /inout/xOffset/\fIx\f(CW	
 / /inout/yOffset/\fIy\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIcommission\f(CW] );		
 /Set_Iconified(/in/boolean/\fIiconic\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIcommission\f(CW] );			
 /Set_Locale(/in/string/\fIcategory\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fIlocale\f(CW	
 / / / /[...] );	
 /Get_Locale(/in/string/\fIcategory\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIlocale\f(CW	
 / / / /[...] );	
 /Set_Mapped(/in/boolean/\fImapped\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIcommission\f(CW] );		
[\fIfile\f(CW]/Modified(/in/\fItype/ID\f(CW );	
[\fIfile\f(CW]/Reverted(/in/\fItype/ID\f(CW );	
[\fIfile\f(CW]/Get_Modified(/in/\fItype/ID\f(CW,	
 / /out/boolean/\fImodified\f(CW );	
 /Pause(/[in/messageID/\fIoperation\f(CW] );		
 /Quit(/in/boolean/\fIsilent\f(CW,	
 / /in/boolean/\fIforce\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIoperation2Quit\f(CW] );	
 /Raise(/[in/messageID/\fIcommission\f(CW] );		
[\fIfile\f(CW]/Save(/in/\fItype/ID\f(CW );	
[\fIfile\f(CW]/Revert(/in/\fItype/ID\f(CW );	
[\fIfile\f(CW]/Saved(/in/\fItype/ID\f(CW );	
 /Set_Situation(/in/string/\fIpath\f(CW );	
 /Get_Situation(/out/string/\fIpath\f(CW );	
 /Signal(/in/string/\fItheSignal\f(CW );	
 /Started(/in/string/\fIvendor\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fItoolName\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fItoolVersion\f(CW );	
 /Stopped(/in/string/\fIvendor\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fItoolName\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fItoolVersion\f(CW );	
 /Status(/in/string/\fIstatus\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fIvendor\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fItoolName\f(CW,	
 / /in/string/\fItoolVersion\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIcommission\f(CW]);	
 /Get_Status(/out/string/\fIstatus\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIvendor\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fItoolName\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fItoolVersion\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIoperation2Query\f(CW]);	
 /Get_Sysinfo(/out/string/\fIsysname\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fInodename\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIrelease\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIversion\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fImachine\f(CW );	
 /Get_XInfo(/out/string/\fIdisplay\f(CW,	
 / /out/string/\fIvisual\f(CW,	
 / /out/integer/\fIdepth\f(CW	
 / /[in/messageID/\fIcommission\f(CW] );
.TE
.SH DEFINITIONS
.PP
.SS \f(CWboolean\fR
.PP
A vtype for logical values.  The underlying data type of
boolean is integer; that is, arguments of this vtype should
be manipulated with \fBtt_*_arg_ival\fR[\fB_set\fR]() and
\fBtt_*_iarg_add()\fR.  Zero means false; non-zero means true.
.\".SS buffer
.\".PP
.\"A volatile, non-shared (e.g., in-memory) representation of
.\"some persistent data.
.\".SS \f8bufferID\fR
.\".PP
.\"A vtype for uniquely identifying buffers.  The underlying
.\"data type of \f(CWbufferID\fR is string.  A good way to guarantee
.\"\f(CWbufferID\fR uniqueness is to make them of the form
.\""\fIinternal_counter\fR \fIprocid\fR".
.SS \f(CWmessageID\fR
.PP
A vtype for uniquely identifying messages.  The underlying
data type of \f(CWmessageID\fR is string; that is, arguments of this
vtype should be manipulated with \fBtt_*_arg_val\fR[\fB_set\fR]() and
.BR tt_*_arg_add ().
The \f(CWmessageID\fR of a
.B Tt_message
is returned by
.BR tt_message_id ().
.SS \fItype\fR
.PP
Any of the vtypes that are the name of the kind of objects
in a particular system of persistent objects.  For example, the
vtype for the kind of objects in filesystems is \f(CWFile\fR.  The
vtype for ToolTalk objects is \f(CWToolTalk_Object\fR.
.SS \fIvendor\fR
.SS \fItoolName\fR
.SS \fItoolVersion\fR
.PP
Names of arguments that appear in several of the messages in
the Desktop suite of messages.  These strings are not
defined rigorously; they merely should be presentable to the
user as descriptions of these three attributes of the
relevant procid.
.\".SS view
.\".PP
.\"A piece of screen real estate, such as a (portion of a)
.\"window, that presents to the user part or all of a document.
.\".SS \f8viewID\fR
.\".PP
.\"A vtype for uniquely identifying views.  The underlying data
.\"type of \f(CWviewID\fR is string.  A good way to guaranteed
.\"\f(CWviewID\fR uniqueness is to make them of the form
.\""\fIinternal_counter\fR \fIprocid\fR".
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B 1102 ITT_DESKTOP_ENOENT
\f(CWNo such file or directory\fR
.TP
.B 1113 TT_DESKTOP_EACCES
\f(CWPermission denied\fR
.TP
.B 1122 TT_DESKTOP_EINVAL
\f(CWInvalid argument\fR
.IP
An argument's value was not valid in these circumstances --
e.g., a locale in \f(CWSet_Locale()\fR that is not valid on the
handler's host.  However,
.B TT_DESKTOP_EINVAL
should only be used when no more-specific status (e.g.
.B TT_DESKTOP_ENOMSG, TT_DESKTOP_EPROTO
) applies.
.TP
.B 1135 TT_DESKTOP_ENOMSG
\f(CWNo message of desired type\fR
.IP
A \f(CWmessageID\fR does not refer to any message currently known by
the handler.
.TP
.B 1171 TT_DESKTOP_EPROTO
\f(CWProtocol error\fR
.IP
A message does could not be understood, because
.PD 0
.RS 8
.HP 2
\(bu
a required argument was omitted
.HP 2
\(bu
an argument had the wrong vtype, or a vtype not allowed
in this message -- e.g., \f(CWboolean\fR in \f(CWGet_Geometry()\fR
.HP 2
\(bu
an argument had the wrong
.B Tt_mode
.HP 2
\(bu
an argument's value was not legal for its vtype --
e.g., negative values for \f(CWwidth\fR in \f(CWSet_Geometry()\fR
.HP 2
\(bu
an argument's value was not legal for this message --
e.g., \f(CWPATH=/foo\fR as a \fIvariable\fR in
\f(CWGet_Environment()\fR
.RE
.PD
.IP
In general,
.B TT_DESKTOP_EPROTO
means that one could see that
the request is malformed simply by comparing it with the
reference page for the message.
.TP
.B 1147 TT_DESKTOP_ECANCELED
\f(CWOperation canceled\fR
.IP
The operation was canceled because of direct or indirect
user intervention.  An example of indirect intervention is
termination of the handling process caused by the user, or
receipt of a \f(CWQuit()\fR request.  (All messages should be taken
as authentically representing the wishes of the user whose uid
is indicated by
.BR tt_message_uid ().)
.TP
.B 1148 TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP
\f(CWOperation not supported\fR
.IP
The requested operation is not supported by this handler.  Normally,
a well-formed request that a handler does not support should be
.BR tt_message_reject ()ed,
thus causing it to fail with
.B TT_ERR_NO_MATCH
if no supporting handler can be found or started.
But sometimes a handler can safely assume that, if it rejects a request,
no other handler will be able to perform the operation.  Examples: a
.B TT_HANDLER
-addressed request such as \f(CWSet_Iconified()\fR,
or a request referring to state
.\"(such as a \f(CWbufferID\fR)
that is managed by this handler and no other.  In these cases, it
is better to explicitly fail the request with
.B TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP,
in order to distinguish the case of an incompletely-implemented handler
from the case of the absence of a handler.
.IP
.B TT_ERR_UNIMP
should not be used in place of
.B TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP,
because 
.B TT_ERR_UNIMP
means that a particular feature of ToolTalk
itself is not implemented.
.TP
.B 1299 TT_DESKTOP_UNMODIFIED
\f(CWOperation does not apply to unmodified entities\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
The vtype namespace for persistent objects currently only
contains \f(CWFile\fR and \f(CWToolTalk_Object\fR.  Vendors who wish to
define a type should either give it a vendor-specific name or
register it through SunSoft's Developer Integration Format
Registration program.  SunSoft can be reached at 1-800-227-9227.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ttsession (1),
.BR intro (2),
.BR X11 (7),
.BR Intro (TT Policy)
