.TH ttsession_file 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttsession_file.4" "" "ttsession_file.4" "" 
.SH NAME
ttsession_file - tell \fBttsession (1)\fR
about systemwide defaults.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /etc/default/ttsession
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The file /etc/default/ttsession can be used to control the 
behavior of ttsession processes on the machine on which this
file resides. Each line within the file is of the form
VAR = value.  Currently there are two values which VAR may
be assigned:
.nf
.IP
AUTH = <security_options> [, lock=yes|no]
COMPAT = allow_unauth_types_load = yes|no [, lock=yes|no]
.fi
.SS Format rules
.PP
The format rules for a
.B ttsesssion_file
are:
.HP 3
1. All lines must be command (VAR = value) lines.
.HP 3
2. Words may be delimited by white space.
.HP 3
3. A command  line of the form:
.nf
.IP
AUTH = <security_options>
.fi
.PP
follows the same  format fules which are used in the "-a" option to ttsession(1).
.HP 3
4. A command  line of the form:
.nf
.IP
COMPAT = allow_unauth_types_load = yes|no
.fi
.PP
means to allow("yes") or disallow("no") users to successfully call the ToolTalk API function
tt_session_types_load(3). The default is "no".
.PP
5. Adding the comma seperated suffix:
.nf
.IP
"lock = yes|no"
.fi
.PP
to either of the format lines allows ("no")
or disallows ("yes") the value to be overridden by a given instance of ttsession(1) via
arguments passed to the ttsession process. The default is "no".
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example allows calls to tt_session_types_load(3) systemwide:
.nf
.IP
COMPAT = allow_unauth_types_load = yes
.fi
.PP
This example sets systemwide security to a specified level, and disallows
per-session override on this host:
.nf
.IP
AUTH  = gss,mechanism=kerberos_v5,qop=GSS_KRB5_CONF_C_QOP_DES, lock = yes
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.PP
.BR ttsession (1)
