.TH tttracefile 4 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tttracefile.4" "" "tttracefile.4" ""
.SH NAME
tttracefile - script of settings for ToolTalk tracing
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A
.B tttrace
script contains settings that control ToolTalk calls and messages.
A 
.B tttrace
script consists of commands separated by semicolons or newlines.
The first command must be the
.B version
command.
.SS Commands
.PP
If conflicting values are given for a setting, the last value wins.
.TP
\fBversion\fR n
The version of the
.B tttracefile
command syntax used.  The current version is 1.
.TP
\fBfollow\fR [\fBoff\fR | \fBon\fR]
Sets whether to follow all children forked by the traced client or
subsequently started in the traced session.  Default is
.BR off .
.TP
\fB[> | >>]\fI outfile\fR
File to be used for the trace output.  By default, trace output
goes to standard error.  Normal
.BR sh (1)
interpretation of
.I >
and
.I >>
applies.
.TP
\fBfunctions\fR [\fBall\fR | \fBnone\fR | \fIfunc...\fR]
ToolTalk API functions to trace.
.I func
may include
.BR sh (1)
wildcard characters. Default is
.BR all .
.TP
\fBattributes\fR [\fBall\fR | \fBnone\fR]
.B none
means use only a single line when printing a message on the trace
output.
.B all
means print all attributes, arguments, and context slots of traced
messages.  Default is
.BR none .
.TP
\fBstates\fR [\fBnone\fR | \fBedge\fR | \fBdeliver\fR | \fBdispatch\fR | \fITt_state\fR]...
State(s) through which to trace messages.  In addition to
the \f(CWTt_state\fRs defined in \f(CWtt_c.h\fR, valid \fIstate\fRs
are:
.PD 0
.RS 8
.HP 2
\(bu \f(CWnone\fR - disable all message tracing
.HP 2
\(bu \f(CWedge\fR - messages entering initial (\f(CWTT_SENT\fR) and final
(\f(CWTT_HANDLED\fR, \f(CWTT_FAILED\fR) states.
.HP 2
\(bu \f(CWdeliver\fR - all state changes and all client deliveries.
.HP 2
\(bu \f(CWdispatch\fR - \f(CWdeliver\fR + all patterns considered for
matching.  (default)
.RE
.PD
.PP
.PD 0
.HP 5
\fBops\fI toTrace\fR...
.HP 5
\fBsender_ptypes\fI toTrace\fR...
.TP
\fBhandler_ptypes\fI toTrace\fR...
.PD
Trace messages that have
.I toTrace
as a value for the indicated message attribute.
.I toTrace
may include
.BR sh (1)
wildcard characters.
If no
.I toTrace
argument is included for a given message attribute, then
no value of that attribute excludes a message from tracing.
.SS Comments
.PP
A word beginning with
.B #
causes that word and all the following characters up to a newline to
be ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To trace all attribute-getting and -setting messages sent by ptype starting
with "Dt",
.IP
.nf
\fBversion \f(CW1	
\fBops \f(CWGet* Set*	
\fBsender_ptypes \f(CWDt*
.fi
.PP
To trace only ToolTalk function calls (but not messages) in a
process tree,
.IP
\fBversion 1; follow on; states none\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ttsession (1),
.BR tttrace (1),
the
.BR Session_Trace ()
ToolTalk request
