.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH SdmIntStrLL 3 "05/07/96"
.BH "05/07/96"
.\" @(#)SdmIntStrLL.3	1.3 96/05/07 SMI
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
SdmIntStrLL \- vector of pointers to vectors of SdmIntStrL objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.SS Includes
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Sdtmail.hh>
.\"
.SS Creation
.ft 3
.nf
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'new SdmIntStrLL('u
new SdmIntStrLL();
.PP
.ft 3
.ta \w'new SdmIntStrLL('u
new SdmIntStrLL(int \f2numelements\fP);
.PP
.ft 3
.ta \w'new SdmIntStrLL('u
new SdmIntStrLL(const SdmIntStrLL& \f2strstrll\fP);
.fi
.ft 1
.\" end of methods list
.ta 0.25i 0.50i 0.75i 1.0i 1.25i 1.50i 1.75i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i
.SH DESCRIPTION
The SdmIntStrLL object is a convenience object; it is merely a vector of
SdmIntStrL objects:
.PP
.nf
	typedef SdmPtrVector<SdmIntStrL *> SdmIntStrLL;
.fi
.PP
It is extensively used to return lists of lists of number string pairs; for
example, retrieval of headers, attributes, etc. from multiple messages.
.SH Operators nad Methods
All operators and methods that are valid for any class templated from the
SdmPtrVector template class apply to the SdmIntStrLL object. The contained
SdmIntStrL objects can then be manipulated with operators and methods that are
valid for any class templated from the SdmVector template class.
.SS Vector Contents
This is a pointer (as opposed to an object) vector; only pointers to the actual
objects are stored in such a vector; therefore, any such object need not have
copy constructor and assignment operators.
.PP
Since the SdmPtrVector container stores pointers to objects as opposed to copies
of actual objects themselves, care must be taken when assigning and copying
pointers into and out of the vector.
.PP
By default, the contents of the vector are NOT automatically destroyed
when the vector itself is destroyed. You must make sure that the
objects are destroyed when they are no longer needed (to avoid memory
leaks), and make sure that the destructor for each object is not
called more than once.
.\"
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR SdmPtrVector (3),
.BR SdmIntStr (3),
.BR SdmIntStrL (3)
