.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH SdmXXX 3 "05/07/96"
.BH "05/07/96"
.\" @(#)SdmTemplate.3	1.5 96/05/07 SMI
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
SdmXXX \- DESCRIPTION
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.SS Includes
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Sdtmail.hh>
#include <XXX.hh>
.\"
.SS Creation
.ft 3
.nf
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'new SdmXXX('u
new SdmXXX(SdmError& \f2err\fP,
	second argument \f2arg\fP);
.PP
.fi
.ft 1
.\"
.SS Operators
.PP
.ft 3
.nf
.sp 0.5v
SdmXXX& operator= (const SdmXXX& \f2xxx\fP);
.PP
.fi
.ft 1
.\"
.SS Methods
.ft 3
.nf
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'SdmErrorCode SdmYYY'u
SdmErrorCode SdmYYY(SdmError \f2&err\fP);
.PP
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.\" end of methods list
.ta 0.25i 0.50i 0.75i 1.0i 1.25i 1.50i 1.75i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.SS Overview
The SdmXXX object blah blah blah.
.\"
.SH CREATION
There are a number of ways to create an SdmXXX object. 
.SS \f3SdmXXX(\f3err\fP, \f3appName\fP)\fP
An SdmXXX object is created how:
.PP
.nf
	SdmError err;
	SdmXXX* con;
	const char* appName = "nameOfApp";

	con = new SdmXXX(err, appName);
	if (err != Sdm_EC_Success) {
		// connection could not be created: handle error
	}
.fi
.PP
Other stuff.
.PP
Arguments:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI "\f3err\fP (\f3SdmError&\fP)"
.br
Return result code of the SdmXXX constructor is returned.
.LI "\f3otherArg\fP (\f3type\fP)"
.br
Other arg.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
Return value: what.
.\"
.SH DESTRUCTION
An SdmXXX object can be destroyed like any other object.
.SS ~SdmXXX()
The SdmXXX object should be destroyed blah blah.
.PP
Arguments: none.
.PP
Return value: none.
.\"
.SH OPERATORS
Many of the standard C operators are overloaded to function with XXX.
.\"
.SH METHODS
The following methods are provided by XXX.
.\"
.SS \f3Method1(\f3err\fP)\fP
This method causes blah blah.
.PP
Arguments:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI "\f3err\fP (\f3SdmError&\fP)"
.br
Return result code of the blah blah.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
Return value: value of return result code stored in err argument.
.\"
.SS \f3Method2(\f3err\fP)\fP
This method causes blah blah.
.PP
Arguments:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI "\f3err\fP (\f3SdmError&\fP)"
.br
Return result code of the blah blah.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
Return value: value of return result code stored in err argument.
.\"
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR SdmError (3),
.BR SdmServiceFunction (3),
.BR SdmSession (3)
