.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH TNF 3 "05/20/96"
.BH "05/20/96"
.\" @(#)TNF.3	1.6 96/05/20 SMI
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
TNF Probes \- A "howto" for using TNF probes in libSDtMail.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.PP
.ft 3
The TNF probes in libSDtMail can be used to debug applications that
make use of this library and to gather performance statistics.
.fi
.ft 1
.\" 
.ta 0.25i 0.50i 0.75i 1.0i 1.25i 1.50i 1.75i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TNF probes are organized into categories according to their function
and according to their class:
.nf
	SdmConnection
	SdmMessage
	SdmMessageStore
	SdmEnvelope
	SdmSession
	SdmBodyPart
	SdmDataPort
	SdmDpDataChan
	SdmDpDataChanCclient
	SdmLockUtility
.fi
.PP
The current global categories are:
.nf
	api			libSDtMail api
	dpapi		dataport api
	dcapi		data channel api
	lockapi		mailbox locking api
.fi
.\"
.SH Usage
To activate these probes "prex" must be used.  Prex permits the user to
activate and inactivate groups of probes prior to running the executable.
Here is a sample session:
.nf
	% prex dtmail -f ./test.mbox
	prex> enable $all
	prex> trace $all
	prex> connect &debug $all
	prex> continue
	% tnfdump /tmp/trace-<pid> > dtmail.dump
	% tnfprof dtmail.dump > dtmail.prof
.fi
.PP
Provide prex with the exact command line that would be used to start the app.
The "enable" command, issued in the sample run, turns on all the probes in
the app and libraries ($all).  "trace" and "connect" are similar commands but
direct output to different places.  "trace" will send the binary output of a
probe to /tmp/trace-<pid> whereas "connect &debug" will send the ascii output
to the screen.  "continue" runs the application.
.PP
Once data has put generated to the /tmp/trace-<pid> file, there are tools
to analyze it.  "tnfdump" will convert this data from binary to ascii and
"tnfprof" will output a performance anaysis of the data.
.PP
Here is another sample session:
.nf
	% prex -l "libc_probe.so" dtmail
	prex> list probes $all
	prex> enable keys=api
	prex> enable name=malloc_start
	prex> enable name=malloc_end
	prex> connect &debug keys=api
	prex> connect &debug name=malloc_start
	prex> connect &debug name=malloc_end
	prex> continue
.fi
.PP
This session includes the libc_probe.so interposition library.  There are
several interposition libraries that provide probes for commonly used
libraries such as libc, Xm, Xt, X11, etc.  In the example, all the probes
are listed, then only the probes in the "api" group are enabled.  Other 
groups that can be enabled are listed above.  The individual probes for 
malloc are also enabled.
.RE
.nr )J 0
.\"
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR prex (3),
.BR tnfdump (3),
.BR tnf_probes (3)
.BR TNF_PROBE (3)
.BR http://suntools.eng/tools/toolpages/tnftools.html
