.\"---  Man page for the "dtspcd" client.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtspcd 1M "12 January 1994"
.BH "12 January -1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Novell, Inc
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtspcd \- CDE Subprocess Control Service
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtspcd
[
.B \-debug
]
[
.B \-log
]
[
.B \-auth_dir 
.I directory
]
.if n .ti +7n
[
.B \-timeout 
.I num_minutes
]
[
.B \-mount_point 
.I mount_point
]
.if n .ti +5n
.LP
.nf
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION

dtspcd is a daemon for the 
CDE (CDE) 
Subprocess Control service.
It is not intended to be started directly by the user,  
rather it should be started automatically by the inetd 
daemon (see inetd(1M)) in response to a CDE client 
requesting a process to be started on the daemon's host.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- OPTIONS
.\"---
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-auth_dir " directory"
The default authentication directory is the user's
$HOME directory.  This option allows the system
administrator to use a different directory.  Note
"directory" must be exported to hosts wishing
to use the dtspc service.
.P
.RS
.I "directory "
\- the name of the directory to use for authentication.
.RE
.\"---
.\"---
.TP
.BI \-timeout " minutes"
By default, the dtspcd process will terminate if it does
not have any activity (process start or process stop) 
for 10 minutes and dtspcd
has no child processes running.  
To change the timeout, set "minutes" to the 
desired number of minutes.  
To force the daemon to not use a timer, 
set "minutes" to "-1".
.P
.RS
.I "minutes "
\- the number of minutes for the timer.
.RE
.\"---
.\"---
.TP
.BI \-mount_point " mount_point"
"mount_point" is the name of the file system's
mount point.  For example, "mount_point" could
be "/net" or "/nfs".  The daemon sets the
environment variable "DTMOUNTPOINT" to the
value of "mount_point".   This value
of DTMOUNTPOINT will override all other 
definitions of DTMOUNTPOINT.
.P
.RS
.I "mount_point "
\- the file system's mount point.
.RE
.\"---
.\"---
.TP
.B \-log            
.if n .ti +0n
This option turns on logging of status information
to the file 
"/var/dt/tmp/DTSPCD.log".  The information logged
includes the name of the client host, the client's
username, error messages and the name of the file 
used for authentication.
The default is to not do any logging.
.TP
.\"---
.\"---
.B \-debug
This option turns on logging of dtspc protocol 
to the file "/var/dt/tmp/DTSPCD.log".  The
protocol information logged includes
the name of the protocol and number of bytes
in the request.
The default is to not log the protocol.
.\"--- 
.\"--- Authentication
.\"---
.SH AUTHENTICATION
.LP
When a CDE client attempts to connect to a dtspcd daemon, 
the client sends the daemon its username.  The
daemon uses the username to determine the user's
home directory on the daemon's host.  The home 
directory is used during authentication and it
must be readable by the daemon and writable by
the client.  Therefore, the user's home directory
on the daemon's host must be mounted to the client 
host.  If the user's home directory is not readable
and the "-auth_dir" command line option is not used,
the directory /var/dt/tmp will be used.
.P
To use a directory other than the user's home directory 
for authentication, use the "-auth_dir" command
line option.
.\"---
.\"--- Configuration
.\"---
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
The dtspcd daemon is an Internet service that must
be registered in the file /etc/services as follows:
.P
.RS 
dtspc      6112/tcp
.RE
.TP
and in the file /etc/inetd.conf as follows:
.P
.RS
dtspc  stream  tcp  nowait  root  /usr/dt/bin/dtspcd \\
.RS
/usr/dt/bin/dtspcd
.P
.\"---
.\"--- Environment management
.\"---
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE MANAGEMENT"
.LP
The CDE Subprocess Control service allows 
the user and system administrator to
create files of environment variable
definitions to be placed in the
processes environment before a remote
process is started.  See dtspcdenv(4M)
for more information.
.\"---
.\"--- Operating system dependencies
.\"---
.SH "OPERATING SYSTEM DEPENDENCIES"
.LP
On HP-UX, the file /usr/adm/inetd.sec may be used to 
control access to the dtspcd daemon.  See inetd.sec(4)
for more information.
.\"---
.\"--- All files referenced in this man page
.\"---
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/dt/bin/dtspcd 
The CDE Subprocess Control daemon
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/services
The Internet service name data base
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/inted.conf
The inetd configuration file
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv
System-wide, locally defined environment variable 
definitions used when a process is executed
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv
System-wide, installed environment variable definitions 
used when a process is executed
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B $HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv
User-specific environment variable definitions used 
when a process is executed
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /var/dt/tmp/DTSPCD.log
The dtspcd log file
.\"---
.\"--- Related man pages
.\"---
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR inetd (1M)
.BR services (4),
.BR inetd.conf (4),
.BR dtspcdenv (4M).
.\"---
.\"--- Diagnostics
.\"---
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the command line options "-log" and
"-debug" (describe above) to get diagnostic
information.
