.TH dtspcd 1m "4 April 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtspcd \- CDE Subprocess Control Service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtspcd	[ \-debug ] [ \-log ] [ \-auth_dir \f2directory\f1 ]
	[ \-timeout \f2num_minutes\f1 ] [ \-mount_point \f2mount_point\f1 ]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The daemon for the 
CDE Subprocess Control service,
.BR dtspcd ,
is not intended to be started directly by the user,  
rather it should be started automatically by the inetd 
daemon (see
.BR inetd (1M))
in response to a CDE client 
requesting a process to be started on the daemon's host.
.SH OPTIONS
.VL 15
.LI "\f3\-auth_dir\f2  directory\f1"
The default authentication directory is the user's
$HOME directory.
This option allows the system
administrator to use a different directory.
Note that
.I directory
must be exported to hosts wishing
to use the
.B dtspc
service.
.br
.I directory
\- the name of the directory to use for authentication.
.sp 1
.LI "\f3\-timeout\f2  minutes\f1"
By default, the dtspcd process will terminate if it does
not have any activity (process start or process stop) 
for 10 minutes and
.B dtspcd
has no child processes running.
To change the timeout, set
.I minutes
to the 
desired number of minutes.  
To force the daemon to not use a timer, 
set
.I minutes
to \-1.
.br
.I "minutes "
\- the number of minutes for the timer.
.LI "\f3\-mount_point\f2  mount_point\f1"
The file system's mount point is named
.IR mount_point.
For example,
.I mount_point
could
be "/net" or "/nfs".
The daemon sets the
environment variable
.I DTMOUNTPOINT
to the
value of
.IR mount_point .
This value
of
.I DTMOUNTPOINT
will override all other 
definitions of
.IR DTMOUNTPOINT .
.LI \f3\-log\f1       
This option turns on logging of status information
to the file
.BR /var/dt/tmp/DTSPCD.log .
The information logged
includes the name of the client host, the client's
username, error messages and the name of the file 
used for authentication.
The default is to not do any logging.
.LI \f3\-debug\f1
This option turns on logging of dtspc protocol 
to the file
.BR /var/dt/tmp/DTSPCD.log.
The
protocol information logged includes
the name of the protocol and number of bytes
in the request.
The default is to not log the protocol.
.LE
.SH AUTHENTICATION
When a CDE client attempts to connect to a
.B dtspcd
daemon, 
the client sends the daemon its username.
The
daemon uses the username to determine the user's
home directory on the daemon's host.
The home 
directory is used during authentication and it
must be readable by the daemon and writable by
the client.
Therefore, the user's home directory
on the daemon's host must be mounted to the client 
host.
If the user's home directory is not readable
and the
.B \-auth_dir
command line option is not used,
the directory
.B /var/dt/tmp
will be used.
.P
To use a directory other than the user's home directory 
for authentication, use the
.B \-auth_dir
command
line option.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.B dtspcd
daemon is an Internet service that must
be registered in the file
.B /etc/services
as follows:
.Cs I 
dtspc      6112/tcp
.Ce
.sp 1
and in the file
.B /etc/inetd.conf
as follows:
.Cs I
dtspc  stream  tcp  nowait  root  /usr/dt/bin/dtspcd/usr/dt/bin/dtspcd
.Ce
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE MANAGEMENT"
.LP
The CDE Subprocess Control service allows 
the user and system administrator to
create files of environment variable
definitions to be placed in the
processes environment before a remote
process is started.
See
.BR dtspcdenv (4M)
for more information.
.SH "OPERATING SYSTEM DEPENDENCIES"
On HP-UX, the file
.B /usr/adm/inetd.sec
may be used to 
control access to the
.B dtspcd
daemon.
See
.BR inetd.sec (4)
for more information.
.SH FILES
.VL 15
.LI \f3/usr/dt/bin/dtspcd\f1
The CDE Subprocess Control daemon
.LI \f3/etc/services\f1
The Internet service name data base
.LI \f3/etc/inted.conf\f1
The inetd configuration file
.LI \f3/etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv\f1
System-wide, locally defined environment variable 
definitions used when a process is executed
.LI \f3/usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv\f1
System-wide, installed environment variable definitions 
used when a process is executed
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv\f1
User-specific environment variable definitions used 
when a process is executed
.LI \f3/var/dt/tmp/DTSPCD.log\f1
The dtspcd log file
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the command line options
.BR \-log
and
.BR \-debug
(described above) to get diagnostic
information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR inetd (1M),
.BR services (4),
.BR inetd.conf (4),
.BR dtspcdenv (4M).



