.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.TH rpc.cmsd 1m "28 May 1997"
.BH "11 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
rpc.cmsd \(mi calendar manager service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.fi
.na
rpc.cmsd
[\(mic\]
[\(mid\]
[\(mig\0\f2hhmm\fP]
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR rpc.cmsd 
is a small database  manager  for  appointment  and
resource-scheduling  data.  Its  primary client is 
.BR dtcm ,
a  productivity  tool  included  with  CDE.
.BR rpc.cmsd  
is  normally  invoked by
.BR inetd (1M)
when a rpc request is received.
.PP
When
.BR rpc.cmsd
is started, it reads its configuration file once.
It reads the configuration file again whenever it receives a
.BR SIGUSR1
signal.  Please refer to the manual page of
.BR cmsd.conf (4)
for more information.
.PP
By default,
.BR rpc.cmsd
does garbage collection by writing the internal calendar image
out to the calendar file at 4:00 am each day.
If the
.B \(mig
option is specified,
.BR rpc.cmsd
does garbage collection at the specified time instead of the default time.
.PP
The local super-user has special administrative privilege and
has full access to all calendars residing on the local machine.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI \f3\(mic\fP
Turns on strict CSA access mode.  In this mode, semi-private
calendar entries (entries with the value of the classification attribute
set to CSA_CLASS_CONFIDENTIAL (see
.BR csa (5))
are viewable only by users who are granted
such view access.  By default, this mode is turned off and users who are not
granted view access to semi-private calendar entries can see the
time of such entries.
.LI \f3\(mid\fP
Enables debugging output.
.LI \f3\(mig\0\f2hhmm\fP
Specifies the time of garbage collection in the 24 hour system.
hh is the hour number (0-23) and mm is the minute number (00-59).
The default is 0400.
.nr )J 6
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The database format used by the 
.BR rpc.cmsd 
is private.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
None.
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.BR Rpc.cmsd
reacts to two signals.  If it receives the
.BR SIGHUP
signal, it finishes processing the current rpc request and
exits.
If it receives the
.BR SIGUSR1
signal, it finishes processing the current rpc request and
rereads the configuration file.
.SH STDOUT
When the
.B \(mid
option is used,
.BR rpc.cmsd 
writes the debugging information to stdout.
.SH STDERR
None.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
When the process exits,
.BR rpc.cmsd 
exits with the status of the exited child.
Otherwise, the following exit values are returned:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI 0
Normal termination.
A zero exit status means
.BR rpc.cmsd 
has received a
.BR SIGHUP
signal, and terminated normally.
.LI -1
Abnormal termination.  Permissions on the database file or 
directory were incorrect.
.LI 1
RPC memory managment errors have prevented successful operation,
a socket operation failed in a nonrecoverable way, or could not create 
a udp service.
.LI 2
Could not create a TLI connnection.
.LI 3
Could not register the service.
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
The
.BR rpc.cmsd 
utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
To run 
.BR rpc.cmsd 
in standalone mode, the user must be root.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR dtcm (1),
.BR dtcm_lookup (1),
.BR dtcm_delete (1),
.BR dtcm_insert (1),
.BR sdtcm_admin (1),
.BR sdtcm_convert (1),
.BR csa (5)
.BR inetd (1M)

