.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
'\" t
.TH dtcm 1X "" "" "" ""
.ds ]W CDE 1.0 (23 Feb 1994)
.na
.SH NAME
\fBdtcm \(em The CDE Calendar Manager.\fP
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdtcm\fP
[-v \fIview\fP ] [-c \fIcalendar\fP ] [-p \fIprinter\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fIdtcm\fP is the CDE appointment and resource
scheduling tool.  Use it to:
.RS
.PD 0
- Display day, week, month, and year views of your calendar
.br
- Schedule single or repeating calendar entries
.br
- Browse and edit another user's calendar
.br
- Schedule reminders to give you notice of events
.br
- Restrict access to your calendar
.br
- Print high-quality hardcopy
.br
- View and Schedule entries for a group of calendars
.br
- Change the time zone context
.br
- Announce appointments via electronic mail
.br
- Schedule appointments received in electronic mail
.PD
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.P
\fIdtcm\fP accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options as
well as the following:
.IP "\fB-c \fP\fIcalendar\fP"
.br
Specifies the calendar to display.  The default value is equivalent to
$USER@$HOST.
.IP "\fB-p \fP\fIprinter\fP"
.br
Specifies the default printer.  The default is the system's default printer.
.IP "\fB-v \fP\fIview\fP"
.br
Specifies the initial view.  Values can be "day", "week", "month" or "year".
.sp 1
.SH CONCEPTS
A \fIcalendar\fP is a persistent entity existing somewhere on the network,
which contains scheduling data for a \fIuser\fP.
A \fIcalendar entry\fP is an event recorded within the context of a calendar.
Calendar entries supported by dtcm are \fIappointment\fP and \fIto-do\fP.
Calendar entries can be \fIsingle\fP, or \fIrepeat\fP entries.
A calendar entry may have one or more \fIreminders\fP associated with it.
A reminder causes dtcm to notify you by issuing an \fIalarm\fP when the
system time enters your specified \fIreminder notice period\fP before the event.
When viewing your calendar, you have the notion of the \fIcurrent date\fP,
which is the date you last selected by selecting the Day View, or by clicking
in any of the other views.  The current date does not change until you select
another date, even if you have navigated out of a view that would contain
the current date.
.P
dtcm presents a \fInetwork calendar model\fP. To operate on a calendar
belonging to some user on the network, dtcm establishes a session with a
\fIcalendar server\fP.  The calendar server is (conceptually at least)
a separate process running on the host where the calendar is located.
It manages all the calendars for the host on which it is running, and
can service multiple connected applications simultaneously.
The calendar server responds to authentication, session control and
calendar transactions initiated by dtcm.  In addition dtcm responds to
events occurring at the server, such as updates caused by other connected
applications instances.
.SH USAGE
dtcm has a single main window, containing a graphical calendar.
You can choose to view day, week, month or year in the main window.
Navigating between the views is achieved by selecting the view from the
\fIView\fP menu, or by clicking one of the navigation buttons displayed
in the current view.
.P
.sp .5
.B Menu Bar
.sp .5
.LP
.B File Menu
.RS
.TP 10
.B Archive...
Creates an archive of calendar data, allowing you to dump
non-current data from your calendar.  Very large calendars
can be difficult to manage, and Archive provides a means of
removing a range of obsolete data.
.TP
.B Restore...
Loads a calendar archive previously created using Archive.
Be careful when using this option; it is fairly primitive,
and will not attempt to reinsert repeating entries as part
of their original sequence.
.TP
.B Printer Setup...
Allows you to specify parameters for a print job, such as
number of copies, orientation, scaling.
.TP
.B Print Current View
Prints hard-copy based on the currently displayed calendar
view.
.TP
.B Print Appointment List...
Brings up a print dialog that allows you to choose the
view of the appointment list that you want to print.
.TP
.B Print ToDo List...
Brings up a print dialog that allows you to specify what
to-do entries you want to print.
.TP
.B Options...
Brings up default options for all of dtcm's global attributes.
.TP
.B Exit
Terminates the dtcm application.
.RE
.LP
.B Edit Menu
.RS
.TP 10
.B Appointment...
Brings up the appointment editor, described below.
.TP
.B ToDo...
Brings up the to-do editor, described below.    
.TP
.B Properties...
Brings up the properties dialog for appointments and to-do entries.
This item is for properties of calendar data entities.  For
properties of the dtcm application, use the \fIProperties...\fP
entry in the \fIFile\fP menu.
.RE
.LP
.B View Menu
.RS
.TP 10
.B Day
Changes the current view in the main window to Day View.
.TP
.B Week
Changes the current view in the main window to Week View.
.TP
.B Month
Changes the current view in the main window to Month View.
.TP
.B Year
Changes the current view in the main window to Year View.
.TP
.B Appointment List...
Brings up the \fIAppointment List\fP dialog.
.TP
.B ToDo List...
Brings up the \fIToDo List\fP dialog.
.TP
.B Find...
Brings up the \fIFind\fP dislog, which you can use to locate
calendar entries by specifying some search criteria.
.TP
.B Go to Date...
Brings up the \fIGo to Date\fP dialog, which allows you to
change the view to a specified date.  This is a convenient
way to get to dates that are distant from the current date.
.RE
.LP
.B Browse Menu
.RS
.TP 10
.B Show Other Calendar...
Brings up a dialog to let you connect to a different calendar than
the one currently displayed, in the main window.  You will still
be displaying a single calendar.
.TP
.B Compare Calendars...
Brings up the \fICompare Calendars\fP dialog, described below.
.TP
.B Menu Editor...
Brings up a dialog that allows you to add frequently used calendars
to the \fIBrowse\fP menu for this and future sessions with dtcm.
.TP
.B <user>@<host>
.TP
.B ...
This sequence of entries consists of your own calendar, followed by
an optional list of calendars that you can add to the menu using the
\fIMenu Editor...\fP option described above.  Your own calendar always
appears first.  The other options are listed in alphabetical order.
.RE
.P
.sp .5
.B Secondary Windows
.P
In addition to the main window, dtcm has several secondary windows,
which give you access to the scheduling and browsing features of dtcm.
.P
The \fIAppointment Editor\fP allows scheduling of appointments.  An appointment
is the most common type of calendar entry.  It is useful for scheduling
time-slots in your calendar, and can be exported to other users either by
direct entry to their calendars, or through electronic mail.  To invoke the
appointment editor, select it from the \fISchedule\fP menu in the main window,
or double-click anywhere in the graphical calendar view.
.P
The \fITo Do Editor\fP allows you to maintain a list of to-do items for your
personal use.  To-do entries are not visible to other dtcm users who
are browsing your calendar; they are private to you.  To-do entries differ
from appointments in that they do not necessarily appear as scheduled events
in your calendar views.  If they have a \fIDue Date\fP associated with them,
you will see that on your calendar view.  The main purpose of to-do entries
is to allow you to maintain a list of work items, without necessarily
allocating calendar time for them.  Invoke the to-do editor from by selecting
it form the \fISchedule\fP menu in the main window.
.P
The \fIGroup Appointment Editor\fP allows you to schedule an appointment on
multiple calendars at once.   Invoke the group appointment editor by clicking
\fISchedule\fP in the \fICompare Calendars\fP window.   You may optionally
announce the appointment over electronic mail.
.P
The \fICompare Calendars\fP window allows you to connect to several calendars
simultaneously, and get a graphical overview of busy and available time
in the resultant "virtual calendar".  Invoke the compare calendars window by
selecting it from the \fIBrowse\fP menu in the main window.
.P
The \fIOptions\fP window, accessible from the \fIFile\fP menu, gives you access
to the dtcm options that you can configure.  There are several
categories of options: Editor Defaults; Display Settings; Access List and
Permissions; Printer Settings; Date Format.  Set the options to suit your
requirements, and save them by clicking \fIApply\fP.
.SH RESOURCES
.P
dtcm supports a number of application resources to allow you to configure
its behaviour.  The application class name for dtcm is \fIDtCalendar\fP.
To set application resources, you can copy the system default version of
this file from /usr/dt/app-defaults/<LANG>/DtCalendar to a personal version,
typically ~/app-defaults/DtCalendar, and edit it with your changes. Following
is the list of supported resources and their default values. 
.P
.TS
center, expand, doublebox;
csss
l l l l
l l l l .
Application Resources
Name	Class	Type	Default	
(TBS)
.TE
.ps
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/dtcm
This is the executable for dtcm.
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/app-defaults/<LANG>/DtCalendar
This is the system-default application defaults file for dtcm.
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/rpc/cmsd
This is the calendar daemon (server) that manages calendars on a machine.
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/calendar/callog.<user>
This is the persistent calendar database for a user on this machine.
.PD
.sp 1
