.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_bcontext_quit 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_bcontext_quit" "" "tt_bcontext_quit.3" ""
.SH NAME
tt_bcontext_quit \- remove a byte-array value from the list of values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_bcontext_quit('u
Tt_status tt_bcontext_quit(const char *\f2slotname\fP,
	const unsigned char *\f2value\fP,
	int \f2length\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_bcontext_quit (\|)
function removes the given byte-array value from the list of values for
the contexts of all patterns.
The context is compared to currently registered patterns for the
procid.
If a pattern has a slot with the specified name, the given byte string
value is removed from the list of values for that slot.
If there are duplicate values, only one value is removed.
.PP
The
.I slotname
argument is the name of the context.
The
.I value
argument is the value to be removed.
The
.I length
argument is the length in bytes of the value.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_bcontext_quit (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_SLOTNAME
.br
The specified slotname is syntactically invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
