.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_context_join 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_context_join" "" "tt_context_join(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_context_join \- add a string value to the list of values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_context_join('u
Tt_status tt_context_join(const char *\f2slotname\fP,
	const char *\f2value\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_context_join (\|)
function
adds the given string value to the list of values for the context of all
patterns.
.PP
The context is compared to currently registered patterns for the
procid.
If a
pattern has a slot with the specified name, the given string value is added to
the list of values for that slot.
.PP
The
.I slotname
argument is the name of the context.
The
.I value
argument is the value to be added.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_context_join (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_SLOTNAME
.br
The specified slotname is syntactically invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
