tt_cde Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_default_session 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_default_session" "" "tt_default_session(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_default_session \- retrieve the current default session identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_default_session('u
char *tt_default_session(void);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
function
retrieves the current default session identifier.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
function returns the pointer to the unique identifier for the
current default session.
If the pointer is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
no default session is set.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The current default process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
A session can have more than one session identifier.
This means that the application
cannot compare the result of
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
with the result of
.BR tt_message_session (3)
to verify that the message was sent in the default session.
.PP
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
