.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_default_session_set 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_default_session_set" "" "tt_default_session_set(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_default_session_set \- set the current default session identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_default_session_set('u
Tt_status tt_default_session_set(const char *\f2sessid\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_default_session_set (\|)
function
sets the current default session identifier.
.PP
The ToolTalk service uses the initial user session as the default session and
supports one session per
procid.
The application can make this call before it
calls
.BR tt_open (3)
to specify the session to which it wants to connect.
.PP
The
.I sessid
argument is a pointer to the unique identifier
for the session in which the procid is interested.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_default_session_set (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The current default process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
To change to another opened session, the application must use the
.BR tt_default_procid_set (\|)
function.
.PP
To join other sessions, the procid must first set the new session as the
default session, and then initialize and register with the ToolTalk service.
The calls required must be in the following order:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
.BR tt_default_session_set (\|)
.BR tt_open (3)
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.BR tt_open (3)
may create another ToolTalk procid, the connection to which is
identified by a procid.
Only one ToolTalk session per procid is allowed.
(However, multiple procids are allowed in a client.)
There are no API calls to determine to which session a particular
procid
is connected.
If it is important for the application to know the session
to which it is connected, it must make the following calls in the indicated
order:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
.BR tt_open (3)
.BR tt_default_session (3)
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The application can then store the information by indexing it by the
procid
returned by the
.BR tt_open (3)
call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR tt_default_procid (3),
.BR tt_default_session (3).
