.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_file_objects_query 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_file_objects_query" "" "tt_file_objects_query(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_file_objects_query \- find all objects in the named file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_file_objects_query('u
Tt_status tt_file_objects_query(const char *\f2filepath\fP,
	Tt_filter_function \f2filter\fP,
	void *\f2context\fP,
	void *\f2accumulator\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_file_objects_query (\|)
function instructs the ToolTalk service to find all objects in the
named file and pass the
objids
to the filter function.
The context pointer and accumulator pointer initially specified are also
passed to the filter function.
.PP
As the ToolTalk service finds each object,
it calls the filter function, passing the
objid
of the object and the two application-supplied pointers.
The filter function performs its computation and returns a
.B Tt_filter_action
value that tells the query function whether to continue or to stop.
.B Tt_filter_action
values are:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_FILTER_CONTINUE
.br
The query function should continue.
.Lc TT_FILTER_STOP
.br
The query function should stop.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The
.I filepath
argument is the name of the file to be searched for objects.
The
.I filter
argument is the filter function to which the
objids
are to be passed.
The
.I context
argument is a pointer to any information the filter needs to execute.
The ToolTalk service does not interpret this argument,
but passes it directly to the filter function.
The
.I accumulator
argument is a pointer to where the filter is to store the results
of the query and filter operations.
The ToolTalk service does not interpret this argument, but passes
it directly to the filter function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_file_objects_query (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.Lc TT_WRN_STOPPED
.br
The query operation being performed was halted by
.BR Tt_filter_function .
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
