.TH tt_feature_required 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.IX "tt_feature_required" "" "tt_feature_required(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_feature_required - Declare a feature to be required by the calling code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include
<\fBTt/tt_c.h\fR>
.br
.B Tt_status tt_feature_required
.RB (
.I Tt_feature feature
.RB );
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B tt_feature_required()
call declares a feature to be required by the calling code. If the feature requires the ToolTalk service to perform some initialization (e.g. \fBTT_FEATURE_MULTITHREADED\fR), the initialization is performed in this call.
.PP
The \fIfeature\fR argument is a \fBTt_feature\fR enum value indicating a particular feature to be used by the calling code.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the  \fBtt_feature_required()\fR function returns  the status of the operation as one of the following \fITt_status\fR values:
.HP 8
.PD 0
.BR TT_OK
.PD
The operation completed successfully.
.TP
.BR TT_WRN_NOT_ENABLED
The feature has not yet been enabled.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_UNIMP
The version of the ToolTalk library linked with the calling code does not support the indicated feature.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_TOOLATE
The indicated feature must be declared to be required before calls to the ToolTalk API already made.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
.PP
To use the ToolTalk library in a multithreaded environment, an application would declare multithreading to be required before a call to \fBtt_open\fR or \fBttdt_open\fR:
.PP
.nf
.ta 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i
.ft CW
.ps -1
	Tt_status ttstat;
	ttstat = tt_feature_required(TT_FEATURE_MULTITHREADED);
	tt_open();
.fi
.ps
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.PP
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR ttdt_open (3),
.BR tt_feature_enabled (3)
