.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_fd 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_fd" "" "tt_fd(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_fd \- return a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'int tt_fd('u
int tt_fd(void);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_fd (\|)
function
returns a file descriptor.
The returned file descriptor alerts the process that a message has
arrived for the default
procid
in the default session.
.PP
File descriptors are either active or inactive.
When the file descriptor becomes
active, the process must call
.BR tt_message_receive (3)
to receive the message.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_fd (\|)
function returns the file descriptor for the current
procid.
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned integer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The current default process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application must have a separate file descriptor for each
procid.
To get an
associated file descriptor, the application should use
.BR tt_fd (\|)
each time it calls
.BR tt_open (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR tt_int_error (3),
.BR tt_message_receive (3).
