.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_file_destroy 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_file_destroy" "" "tt_file_destroy(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_file_destroy \- remove objected rooted on a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_file_destroy('u
Tt_status tt_file_destroy(const char *\f2filepath\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_file_destroy (\|)
function
removes all objects that exist on the files and directories rooted at
.IR filepath .
The application must call this function when the application
unlinks a file or removes a directory.
.PP
The
.I filepath
argument is a pointer to the pathname of the file or directory to be removed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_file_destroy (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_ACCESS
.br
The user does not have the necessary access to the object and/or the process.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
It does not appear to exist; administrative action is required.
.Lc TT_ERR_FILE
.br
The specified file does not exist or it is inaccessible.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_file_copy (3),
.BR tt_file_move (3),
.BR rmdir (2),
.BR unlink (2);
