.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_file_join 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_file_join" "" "tt_file_join(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_file_join \- register interest in messages involving a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_file_join('u
Tt_status tt_file_join(const char *\f2filepath\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_file_join (\|)
function
informs the ToolTalk service that the process is interested in messages
that involve the specified file.
.PP
The ToolTalk service adds this file value to any currently registered patterns.
The named file becomes the default file.
.PP
When the process joins a file, the ToolTalk service updates the file field
of its registered patterns.
The
.BR tt_file_join (\|)
call causes the pattern's ToolTalk
session to be stored in the database.
.PP
The
.I filepath
argument is a pointer to the pathname of the file in which the
process is interested.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_file_join (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
