.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_arg_xval 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_arg_xval" "" "tt_message_arg_xval(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_arg_xval \- retrieve and deserialize the data from a message argument
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_arg_xval('u
Tt_status tt_message_arg_xval(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2n\fP,
	xdrproc_t \f2xdr_proc\fP,
	void **\f2value\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_arg_xval (\|)
function
retrieves and deserializes the data from a message argument.
This function uses an XDR routine that is supplied by the client.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument is the number of the argument to be returned.
The first argument is numbered zero.
The
.I xdr_proc
argument
points to the XDR procedure to be used to deserialize the data in the
.IR n th
argument into newly allocated storage,
the address of which will be stored in the pointer whose address is
.IR value .
.PP
The
.I value
argument is the data to be deserialized.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_arg_xval (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_MODE
.br
The specified
.B Tt_mode
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_XDR
.br
The XDR procedure failed on the given data, or evaluated to a
zero-length structure.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The allocation calls are made by the XDR procedure; therefore, any
storage allocated is not allocated from the ToolTalk allocation stack.
The application should
use the
.BR xdr_free (3)
call to free this storage.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
