.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_user 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_user" "" "tt_message_user(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_user \- retrieve the user information associated with a message object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void *tt_message_user('u
void *tt_message_user(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2key\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_user (\|)
function
retrieves the user information stored in data cells associated with the
specified message object.
.PP
The user data is part of the message object
(that is, the storage buffer in the
application); it is not a part of the actual message.
The application can, therefore, only
retrieve user information that the application placed in the message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I key
argument is the user data cell to be retrieved.
The user data cell must be unique for this message.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_user (\|)
function returns the data cell,
a piece of arbitrary user data that can hold a
.BR "void\ *" .
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned data:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.PP
The user data cell is intended to hold an address.
If the address selected is equal to one of the
.B Tt_status
enumerated values, the result of the
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
function will not be reliable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
