.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_state 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_state" "" "tt_message_state(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_state \- retrieve the state attribute from a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_state tt_message_state('u
Tt_state tt_message_state(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_state (\|)
function
retrieves the state attribute from the specified message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_state (\|)
function returns a value that indicates the current delivery
state of the message.
The
.BR tt_message_state (\|)
function returns one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_CREATED
.br
The message has been created, but not yet sent.
.Lc TT_SENT
.br
The message has been sent, but not yet handled.
.Lc TT_HANDLED
.br
The message has been handled; return values are valid.
.Lc TT_FAILED
.br
The message could not be delivered to a handler.
.Lc TT_QUEUED
.br
The message has been queued for delivery.
.Lc TT_STARTED
.br
The ToolTalk service is attempting to start a process to handle the message.
.Lc TT_REJECTED
.br
The message has been rejected by a possible handler.
.Lc TT_RETURNED
.br
all observers (and the handler, if there is one) have
accepted, rejected, or destroyed the TT_OFFER. The
original sender sees this state, and it can be
observed.
.br
This comes back to the original sender like the reply
for a request. In particular, any message callbacks
for the offer are run, and user data attached to the
message before sending are available.
.Lc TT_ACCEPTED
.br
Offers (only) enter this state when tt_message_accept
is done on them by a receiver. The state is seen
only by the receiver.
.Lc TT_REJECTED
.br
This state already exists; a receiver can
tt_message_reject a request that matched a
handle pattern, which puts the message into
state TT_REJECTED for it.  This will be extended
to offers -- a receiver that gets an offer will see
this message in the TT_REJECTED state.
.Lc TT_ABSTAINED
.br
Offers (only) enter this state when a receiving
procid does the next tt_message_receive without
accepting or rejecting the offer.  One can think
of TT_ABSTAINED also being entered when a procid
destroys an offer without accepting or rejecting
it, but since the message is destroyed at that time
the procid will never see the state.  This state is
seen only by the receiver.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the
.B Tt_state
integer return value:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_int_error (3).
