.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_send_on_exit 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_send_on_exit" "" "tt_message_send_on_exit(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_send_on_exit \- set up a message to send upon unexpected exit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_send_on_exit('u
Tt_status tt_message_send_on_exit(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_send_on_exit (\|)
function
requests that the ToolTalk service send this message if
the process exits unexpectedly.
The message is sent to the ToolTalk service, which queues the message
internally until either of two events occur:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 5
.LI 1.
The procid that sent the
.BR tt_message_send_on_exit (\|)
message to the ToolTalk service calls
.BR tt_close (3).
In this case, the queued message is deleted.
.LI 2.
The connection between the
.BR ttsession (1)
server and the process that sent the
.BR tt_message_send_on_exit (\|)
message to the ToolTalk service is broken; for
example, if the application has crashed.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
In this case, the ToolTalk service matches the queued message to its patterns
and delivers it in the same manner as if the process had sent the message
normally before exiting.
.PP
If a process sends a normal termination message but exits without calling
.BR tt_close (3),
both the normal termination message and the on_exit message are
delivered.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_send_on_exit (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_ADDRESS
.br
The specified
.B Tt_address
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_CLASS
.br
The specified
.B Tt_class
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_FILE
.br
The specified file does not exist or it is inaccessible.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_close (3).
