.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_xcontext_set 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_xcontext_set" "" "tt_message_xcontext_set(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_xcontext_set \- set the XDR-interpreted byte-array value of a message's context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_xcontext_set('u
Tt_status tt_message_xcontext_set(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	const char *\f2slotname\fP,
	xdrproc_t \f2xdr_proc\fP,
	void *\f2value\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_xcontext_set (\|)
function
sets the XDR-interpreted byte-array value of a message's context.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I slotname
argument describes the slotname in this message.
The
.I value
argument is the byte string with the contents for the message argument.
The
.I xdr_proc
argument
points to the XDR procedure
to be used to serialize the data pointed to by
.IR value .
The
.I value
argument is the data to be serialized.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_xcontext_set (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer does not point at an object of the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_SLOTNAME
.br
The specified slotname is syntactically invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_XDR
.br
The XDR procedure failed on the given data, or evaluated to a
zero-length expression.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
