.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_arg_bval 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_arg_bval" "" "tt_message_arg_bval(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_arg_bval \- retrieve the byte-array value of a message argument
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_arg_bval('u
Tt_status tt_message_arg_bval(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2n\fP,
	unsigned char **\f2value\fP,
	int *\f2len\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_arg_bval (\|)
function
retrieves the byte-array value of the
.IR n th
message argument.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument is the number of the argument to be retrieved.
The first argument is numbered zero.
The
.I value
argument is the
address of a character pointer to which the ToolTalk service
is to point a string that contains the contents of the argument.
The
.I len
argument is the address of an integer to which the ToolTalk service
is to set the length of the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_arg_bval (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
