.TH tt_message_gid 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_gid" "" "tt_message_gid(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_gid \- retrieve the group identifier attribute from a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'gid_t tt_message_gid('u
gid_t tt_message_gid(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_gid (\|)
function
retrieves the group identifier attribute from the specified message.
.PP
The ToolTalk service automatically sets the group identifier of a message with
the group identifier of the process that created the message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.PP
The application should check the tt_message_uid(3) and
.BR tt_message_gid(\|)
against the User ID and Group ID of the application receiving the messsage. If the UID and/or
GID of the application do not match that of the message then the receiving application
should consider failing the message with TT_DESKTOP_EACCES.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_gid (\|)
function returns
the group identifier of the message.
If the group
.B nobody
is returned, the message handle is not valid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_message_uid (3).
