.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_receive 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_receive" "" "tt_message_receive(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_receive \- receive a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_message_receive('u
Tt_message tt_message_receive(void);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
function returns a handle for the next message queued to be delivered
to the process and also runs any message or pattern callbacks
applicable to the queued message.
.PP
If the return value of
.BR tt_message_status (3)
for this message is
.BR \s-1TT_WRN_START_MESSAGE\s+1 ,
the ToolTalk service started the process to deliver the queued message;
the process must reply to this message.
If the return value of
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
is zero, no message is available.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
function returns the handle for the message object.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_STATE
.br
The Tt_message is in a Tt_state that is invalid
for the attempted operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
A zero value can occur if a message or pattern callback processes the message.
It can also occur if the interval is too long between the time the file
descriptor became active and the
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
call was made.
In the latter case, the ToolTalk service will time out and offer the message to
another process.
.PP
The application should check the tt_message_uid(3) and tt_message_gid(3) against
the User ID and Group ID of the application receiving the messsage. If the UID and/or
GID of the application do not match that of the message then the receiving application
should consider failing the message with TT_DESKTOP_EACCES.
.PP
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
