.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_arg_bval_set 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_arg_bval_set" "" "tt_message_arg_bval_set(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_arg_bval_set \- set the byte-array value and type of a message argument
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_arg_bval_set('u
Tt_status tt_message_arg_bval_set(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2n\fP,
	const unsigned char *\f2value\fP,
	int \f2len\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_arg_bval_set (\|)
function
sets the byte-array value and the type of the
.IR n th
message argument.
.PP
This function also changes the value of an existing
.IR n th
message argument to a byte string.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument is the number of the argument to set.
The first argument is numbered zero.
The
.I value
argument is the byte string with the contents for the message argument.
The
.I len
argument is the length of the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_arg_bval_set (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The sending process can use
.BR tt_message_arg_bval_set (3)
to fill in opaque data.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_message_barg_add (3),
.BR tt_message_arg_val_set (3),
.BR tt_message_arg_ival_set (3).
