.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_callback_add 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_callback_add" "" "tt_message_callback_add(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_callback_add \- register a callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_callback_add('u
Tt_status tt_message_callback_add(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	Tt_message_callback \f2f\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_callback_add (\|)
function
registers a callback function to be automatically invoked by
.BR tt_message_receive (3)
whenever a reply or other state-change to this message is returned.
.PP
The callback is defined in
.BR <Tt/tt_c.h> .
If the callback returns
.BR \s-1TT_CALLBACK_CONTINUE\s+1 ,
other callbacks will be
run; if no callback returns
.BR \s-1TT_CALLBACK_PROCESSED\s+1 ,
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
returns the message.
If the callback returns
.BR \s-1TT_CALLBACK_PROCESSED\s+1 ,
no further callbacks are
invoked for this event;
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
does not return the message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I f
argument is the message callback to be run.
.PP
The pattern handle will be
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
if the message did not match a dynamic pattern.
This is usually the case for message callbacks.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_callback_add (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
These callbacks are invoked from
.BR tt_message_receive (\|);
the program must, therefore, call
.BR tt_message_receive (\|)
when the file descriptor returned by
.BR tt_fd (\|)
becomes active.
.PP
The application can use
.BR tt_message_callback_add (\|)
to create wrappers for ToolTalk messages.
For example, a library routine can construct a request,
attach a callback to the message, send
the message, and process the reply in the callback.
When the callback returns
.BR \s-1TT_CALLBACK_PROCESSED\s+1 ,
the message reply is not returned to the main
program; the message and reply are, therefore, completely hidden.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_message_receive (3).
