.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_context_bval 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_context_bval" "" "tt_message_context_bval(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_context_bval \- retrieve the byte-array value and length of a message's context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_context_bval('u
Tt_status tt_message_context_bval(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	const char *\f2slotname\fP,
	unsigned char **\f2value\fP,
	int *\f2len\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_context_bval (\|)
function
retrieves the byte-array value and length of a message's context.
.PP
If there is no context slot associated with
.IR slotname ,
.BR tt_message_context_bval (\|)
returns a
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
pointer in
.I slotname
and zero in
.IR len .
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I slotname
argument describes the context of this message.
The
.I value
argument points to the location to return the value.
The
.I len
argument is the length of the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_context_bval (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_SLOTNAME
.br
The specified slotname is syntactically invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
