.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_create 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_create" "" "tt_message_create(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_create \- create a new message object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_message_create('u
Tt_message tt_message_create(void);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_create (\|)
function creates a new message object.
.PP
The ToolTalk service returns a message handle that is an opaque pointer to a
ToolTalk structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_create (\|)
function returns the unique opaque handle that identifies the message object.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The process identification is not valid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
A return value of
.BR \s-1TT_ERR_PROCID\s+1
implies that
.BR tt_open (3)
was not issued before
.BR tt_message_create (\|).
.PP
If the ToolTalk service is unable to create a message when requested,
.BR tt_message_create (\|)
returns an invalid handle.
When the application attempts to use this handle with another
ToolTalk function, the ToolTalk service will return
.BR \s-1TT_ERR_POINTER\s+1 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR tt_message_destroy (3).
