.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_create_super 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_create_super" "" "tt_message_create_super(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_create_super \- create and re-address a copy of a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_message_create_super('u
Tt_message tt_message_create_super(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_create_super (\|)
function
creates a copy of the specified message and re-addresses the copy of the
message to the parent of the otype contained within the message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_create_super (\|)
function returns the opaque unique handle for the re-addressed message.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_ADDRESS
.br
The specified
.B Tt_address
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The otype of the message
.I m
can be determined using the
.BR tt_message_otype (3)
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_message_otype (3),
.BR tt_message_send (3),
.BR tt_message_destroy (3).
