.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_accept 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_accept" "" "tt_message_accept(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_accept \- declare that the process has been initialized and can accept messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_accept('u
Tt_status tt_message_accept(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_accept (\|)
function
declares that the process has been initialized and can accept messages.
.PP
The ToolTalk service invokes this function for start messages.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.PP
Note: For TT_OFFER messages, the API call will count this 
.I procid 
as accepting the offer.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_accept (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_UNIMP
.br
The ToolTalk function called is not implemented.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_STATE
.br
The Tt_message is in a Tt_state that is invalid
for the attempted operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
