.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_abstainer 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_abstainer" "" "tt_message_abstainer(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_abstainer \- return offer's nth abstaining procid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_message_abstainer('u
char *tt_message_abstainer(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	int \f2n\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_abstainer (\|)
function
returns the procid of the
.IR n th
abstainer of the specified message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument is the number of the abstainer to be returned.
The first abstainer is numbered zero.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_abstainer (\|)
function returns the procid of the
.IR n th
abstainer.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
There is no valid default procid, perhaps because
.BR tt_open (3)
has not yet been called.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_STATE
.br
The specified message is not in state
.BR \s-1TT_RETURNED\s+1 .
Since only
.BR \s-1TT_OFFER\s+1 s
can be in state
.BR \s-1TT_RETURNED\s+1 ,
this status will be returned if the specified message is a
.BR \s-1TT_NOTICE\s+1
or a
.BR \s-1TT_REQUEST\s+1 .
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application can use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_message_abstainers_count (3),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
