.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_disposition 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_disposition" "" "tt_message_disposition(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_disposition \- retrieve the disposition attribute from a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_disposition tt_message_disposition('u
Tt_disposition tt_message_disposition(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_disposition (\|)
function
retrieves the disposition attribute from the specified message.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_disposition (\|)
function returns a value that indicates whether an instance of the
receiving process should be started to receive the message immediately,
or whether the message is to be queued until the receiving process is
started at a later time.
The
.BR tt_message_disposition (\|)
function returns one of the following
.B Tt_disposition
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_DISCARD
.br
There is no receiver for this message.
The message will be returned to the sender with the
.B Tt_status
field containing
.BR \s-1TT_FAILED\s+1 .
.Lc TT_QUEUE
.br
Queue the message until a process of the proper
ptype
receives the message.
.Lc TT_START
.br
Attempt to start a process of the proper
ptype
if none is running.
.Lc TT_QUEUE+TT_START
.br
Queue the message and attempt to start a process of the proper
ptype
if none is running.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the
.B Tt_disposition
integer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_int_error (3).
