.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_xarg_add 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_xarg_add" "" "tt_message_xarg_add(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_xarg_add \- add an argument with an XDR-interpreted value to a message object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_xarg_add('u
Tt_status tt_message_xarg_add(Tt_message \f2m\fP,
	Tt_mode \f2n\fP,
	const char *\f2vtype\fP,
	xdrproc_t \f2xdr_proc\fP,
	void *\f2value\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_xarg_add (\|)
function
adds an argument with an XDR-interpreted value to a message object.
.PP
To change existing argument values, the application must use only modes
.BR \s-1TT_OUT\s+1
or
.BR \s-1TT_INOUT\s+1 .
.PP
Adding arguments when replying to a message produces undefined results.
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
The
.I n
argument specifies who
(sender, handler, observers) writes and reads a message argument.
The following modes are defined:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_IN
The argument is written by the sender and read by the
handler and any observers.
.Lc TT_OUT
.br
The argument is written by the handler and read by the
sender and any reply observers.
.Lc TT_INOUT
.br
The argument is written by the sender and the
handler and read by all.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The
vtype
argument describes the type of argument data being added.
The
.I xdr_proc
argument points to the XDR procedure to be used to serialize the data
pointed to by
.IR value .
The
.I value
argument is the data to be serialized.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_xarg_add (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_MODE
.br
The specified
.B Tt_mode
is invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_XDR
.br
The XDR procedure failed on the given data, or evaluated to a
zero-length expression.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
