.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_message_fail 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_message_fail" "" "tt_message_fail(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_message_fail \- indicate a message cannot be handled
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_message_fail('u
Tt_status tt_message_fail(Tt_message \f2m\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_message_fail (\|)
function
informs the ToolTalk service that the process cannot handle the request just
received.
.PP
This function also informs the ToolTalk service that the message is not be
offered to other processes of the same ptype.
The ToolTalk service will send the
message back to the sender with state
.BR \s-1TT_FAILED\s+1 .
.PP
The
.I m
argument is the opaque handle for the message involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_message_fail (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOTHANDLER
.br
This application is not the handler for this message.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The status value must be greater than
.BR \s-1TT_ERR_LAST\s+1
to avoid confusion with the ToolTalk service status values.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
To distinguish this case from the case where a message failed because no
matching handler could be found,
the application should place an explanatory message code in the
status attribute of the message with
.BR tt_message_status_set (3)
and
.BR tt_message_status_string_set (3)
before calling
.BR tt_message_fail (\|).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_message_status_set (3),
.BR tt_message_status_string_set (3).
