.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_otype_hsig_args_count 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_otype_hsig_args_count.3" "" "tt_otype_hsig_args_count.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_otype_hsig_args_count \- return the number of arguments of a request signature of an otype
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'int tt_otype_hsig_args_count('u
int tt_otype_hsig_args_count(const char *\f2otype\fP,
	int \f2sig\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_otype_hsig_args_count (\|)
function
returns the number of arguments of the
.IR sig th
request
signature of the given
otype.
.PP
The
otype
argument is the object type involved in this operation.
The
.I sig
argument is the zero-based index into the request
signatures of the specified
otype.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_otype_hsig_args_count (\|)
function returns the number of arguments of the
.IR sig th
request signature of the given
otype.
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned integer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_arg_type (3),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode (3),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_count (3),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_op (3),
.BR tt_int_error (3).
