.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_objid_equal 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_objid_equal" "" "tt_objid_equal(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_objid_equal \- test whether two objids are equal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'int tt_objid_equal('u
int tt_objid_equal(const char *\f2objid1\fP,
	const char *\f2objid2\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_objid_equal (\|)
function
tests whether two
objids
are equal.
.PP
The
.BR tt_objid_equal (3)
function is recommended rather than
.BR strcmp (3)
for this purpose because the
.BR tt_objid_equal (3)
function returns 1 even in the
case where one
objid
is a forwarding pointer for the other.
.PP
The
.I objid1
argument is the identifier of the first object involved in this operation.
The
.I objid2
argument is the identifier of the second object involved in this operation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_objid_equal (\|)
function returns an integer that indicates whether the
objids
are equal.
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned integer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI 0
The
.I objid1
and
.I objid2
objects are not equal.
.LI 1
The
.I objid1
and
.I objid2
objects are equal.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to determine if the integer is valid.
The
.BR tt_objid_equal (\|)
function returns one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_int_error (3).
