.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode" "" "tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode \- return the mode of an argument of a request signature of an otype
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_mode tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode('u
Tt_mode tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode(const char *\f2otype\fP,
	int \f2sig\fP,
	int \f2arg\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode (\|)
function
returns the mode of the
.IR arg th
argument of the
.IR sig th
request signature of
the given
otype.
.PP
The
otype
argument is the object type involved in this operation.
The
.I sig
argument is the zero-based index into the request signatures
of the specified
otype.
The
.I arg
argument is the zero-based index into the arguments of the specified signature.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_otype_hsig_arg_mode (\|)
function returns a value that determines who
(sender or handler) writes and reads a message argument.
The following modes are defined:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_IN
The argument is written by the sender and read by the
handler and any observers.
.Lc TT_OUT
.br
The argument is written by the handler and read by the
sender and any reply observers.
.Lc TT_INOUT
.br
The argument is written by the sender and the
handler and read by all.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The application can use
.BR tt_int_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the
.B Tt_mode
integer return value:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_arg_type (3),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_count (3),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_args_count (3),
.BR tt_otype_hsig_op (3),
.BR tt_int_error (3).
