.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_orequest_create 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_orequest_create" "" "tt_orequest_create(3)" ""
.SH NAME
tt_orequest_create \- create a request message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_orequest_create('u
Tt_message tt_orequest_create(const char *\f2objid\fP,
	const char *\f2op\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_orequest_create (\|)
function
creates a message.
The created message contains the following:
.PP
.in +6
.B Tt_address
=
.BR \s-1TT_OBJECT\s+1
.br
.B Tt_class
=
.BR \s-1TT_REQUEST\s+1
.PP
The application can use the returned handle to add
arguments and other attributes, and to send the message.
.PP
The
.I objid
argument is the identifier of the specified object.
The
.I op
argument is the operation to be performed by the receiving process.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_orequest_create (\|)
function returns the unique handle that identifies the message.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
