.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_pnotice_create 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_pnotice_create.3" "" "tt_pnotice_create.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_pnotice_create \- create a procedure notice
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tt_pnotice_create('u
Tt_message tt_pnotice_create(Tt_scope \f2scope\fP,
	const char *\f2op\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_pnotice_create (\|)
function creates a message.
The created message contains the following:
.PP
.in +6
.B Tt_address
=
.BR \s-1TT_PROCEDURE\s+1
.br
.B Tt_class
=
.BR \s-1TT_NOTICE\s+1
.PP
The application can use the returned handle to add
arguments and other attributes, and to send the message.
.PP
The
.I scope
argument determines which processes are eligible to receive the message.
The following values are defined:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_SESSION
.br
All processes joined to the indicated session are eligible.
.Lc TT_FILE
.br
All processes joined to the indicated file are eligible.
.Lc TT_BOTH
.br
All processes joined to either indicated file
or the indicated session are eligible.
.Lc TT_FILE_IN_SESSION
.br
All processes joined to both the indicated file
and the indicated session are eligible.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The
.I op
argument is the operation to be performed by the receiving process.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_pnotice_create (\|)
function returns the unique handle that identifies this message.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.PP
If the ToolTalk service is unable to create a message when requested,
.BR tt_pnotice_create (\|)
returns an invalid handle.
When the application attempts to use this handle with another
ToolTalk function, the ToolTalk service will return
.BR \s-1TT_ERR_POINTER\s+1 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
