.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_pattern_create 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_pattern_create.3" "" "tt_pattern_create.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_pattern_create \- request a new pattern object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_pattern tt_pattern_create('u
Tt_pattern tt_pattern_create(void);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_pattern_create (\|)
function
requests a new pattern object.
.PP
After receiving the pattern object,
the application fills in the message pattern fields to indicate
what type of messages the process wants to receive and then registers the
pattern with the ToolTalk service.
.PP
The application can supply multiple values for each attribute
added to a pattern
(although some attributes are set and can only have one value).
The pattern
attribute matches a message attribute if any of the values in the pattern match
the value in the message.
If no value is specified for an attribute,
the ToolTalk service assumes that any value will match.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_pattern_create (\|)
function returns the opaque handle for a message pattern.
The application can use this handle in future calls to
identify the pattern object.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_pattern_register (3),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
