.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_pattern_arg_add 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_pattern_arg_add.3" "" "tt_pattern_arg_add.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_pattern_arg_add \- add an argument to a pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_pattern_arg_add('u
Tt_status tt_pattern_arg_add(Tt_pattern \f2p\fP,
	Tt_mode \f2n\fP,
	const char *\f2vtype\fP,
	const char *\f2value\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_pattern_arg_add (\|)
function
adds an argument to a pattern.
The application must
add pattern arguments before it registers
the pattern with the ToolTalk service.
.PP
The
.I p
argument is the opaque handle for the pattern involved in this operation
The
.I n
argument specifies who
(sender, handler, observers) writes and reads a message argument.
The following modes are defined:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_IN
The argument is written by the sender and read by the
handler and any observers.
.Lc TT_OUT
.br
The argument is written by the handler and read by the
sender and any reply observers.
.Lc TT_INOUT
.br
The argument is written by the sender and the
handler and read by all.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The
vtype
argument describes the type of argument data being added.
The type
.BR \s-1ALL\s+1
matches any argument value type.
The
.I value
argument is the value to fill in.
This value must be an unsigned character string.
A
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
matches any value.
.PP
Pattern arguments are positional paramaters, and thus will only match
an incoming message if the arguments have the same type and position
within the argument list of the incoming message. In order to match
an argument which is not the first in a list of arguments, the programmer
must use tt_pattern_arg_add(3) to register wildcard arguments for the
intervening arguments between the first argument and the argument which
it is desired to match on. Wildcard arguments should have the vtype of "ALL"
and a value of NULL.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_pattern_arg_add (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_pattern_register (3),
.BR tt_pattern_barg_add (3),
.BR tt_pattern_iarg_add (3).
