.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_pattern_xcontext_add 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_pattern_xcontext_add.3" "" "tt_pattern_xcontext_add.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_pattern_xcontext_add \- add an XDR-interpreted byte-array value to this pattern's named context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_pattern_xcontext_add('u
Tt_status tt_pattern_xcontext_add(Tt_pattern \f2p\fP,
	const char *\f2slotname\fP,
	xdrproc_t \f2xdr_proc\fP,
	void *\f2value\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_pattern_xcontext_add (\|)
function
adds an XDR-interpreted byte-array value to the values in this pattern's
named context.
.PP
The
.I p
argument is the opaque handle for the pattern involved in this operation.
The
.I slotname
argument describes the context for this pattern.
The
.I xdr_proc
argument
points to the XDR procedure to be used to serialize the data pointed to by
value.
The
.I value
argument is the data to be serialized.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_pattern_xcontext_add (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_UNIMP
.br
The ToolTalk function called is not implemented.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_SLOTNAME
.br
The specified slotname is syntactically invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_XDR
.br
The XDR procedure failed on the given data, or evaluated to a
zero-length expression.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
