.TH tt_procid_session 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.IX "tt_procid_session" "" "tt_procid_session.3" ""
.SH NAME
tt_procid_session - identify the session in which the indicated \fIprocid\fR was opened
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include
<\fBTt/tt_c.h\fR>
.br
.B char *tt_procid_session
.RB (
.I char *procid
.RB );
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B tt_procid_session()
function retrieves the session in which the given \fIprocid\fR was opened.
.PP
The \fIprocid\fR argument is a pointer to the unique identifier for the ToolTalk process in which the caller is interested.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \fBtt_procid_session()\fR function returns the  pointer to a character string that uniquely identifies the session which was the default session at the time the \fIprocid\fR argument was returned by a
.BR tt_open (3)
or 
.BR ttdt_open (3)
call. The application can use 
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following \fBTt_status\fR values from the returned pointer:
.HP 8
.PD 0
.BR TT_OK
.PD
The operation completed successfully.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_NOMP
The \fBttsession(1)\fR process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_PROCID
The current default process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
.PP
The application should use \fBtt_free(3)\fR to free any data stored in the address returned by the ToolTalk API.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.PP
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3)

