.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_session_bprop 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_session_bprop.3" "" "tt_session_bprop.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_session_bprop \- retrieve the ith value of the named property of a session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_session_bprop('u
Tt_status tt_session_bprop(const char *\f2sessid\fP,
	const char *\f2propname\fP,
	int \f2i\fP,
	unsigned char **\f2value\fP,
	int *\f2length\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_session_bprop (\|)
function
retrieves the
.IR i th
value of the named property of the specified session.
.PP
If there are
.I i
values or fewer, both the returned value and the returned length
are set to zero.
.PP
The
.I sessid
argument is the session joined.
The application can use the
.I sessid
value returned when
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
is called.
The
.I propname
argument is the name of the property from which values are to be obtained.
The
.I i
argument is the number of the item in the property list from which the value is to be
obtained.
The list numbering begins with zero.
The
.I value
argument is the
address of a character pointer to which the ToolTalk service is to point a
string that contains the contents of the property.
The
.I len
argument is the address of an integer to which the ToolTalk service is to set the length of
the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_session_bprop (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPNAME
.br
The specified property name is syntactically invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
