.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_spec_move 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_spec_move.3" "" "tt_spec_move.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_spec_move \- notify the ToolTalk service that an object has moved to a different file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_spec_move('u
char *tt_spec_move(const char *\f2objid\fP,
	const char *\f2newfilepath\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_spec_move (\|)
function
notifies the ToolTalk service that this object has moved to a different file.
.PP
The ToolTalk service returns a new
objid
for the object and leaves a forwarding
pointer from the old
objid
to the new one.
.PP
If a new
objid
is not required (for example, because the new and old
files are in the same file system),
.BR tt_spec_move (\|)
returns
.BR \s-1TT_WRN_SAME_OBJID\s+1 .
.PP
The
.I objid
argument is the identifier of the object involved in this operation.
.PP
The
.I newfilepath
argument is the new file name.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_spec_move (\|)
function returns the new unique identifier of the object involved in this operation.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
.I objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.Lc TT_WRN_SAME_OBJID
.br
A new
.I objid
is not required.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.PP
For efficiency and reliability,
the application should replace any references in the application to the old
.I objid
with references to the new one.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
