.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_session_bprop_set 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_session_bprop_set.3" "" "tt_session_bprop_set.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_session_bprop_set \- replace current values stored under the named property of a session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_session_bprop_set('u
Tt_status tt_session_bprop_set(const char *\f2sessid\fP,
	const char *\f2propname\fP,
	const unsigned char *\f2value\fP,
	int \f2length\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_session_bprop_set (\|)
function
replaces any current values stored under the named property of the
specified session with the given byte-string value.
.PP
The
.I sessid
argument is the name of the session joined.
The application can use the
.I sessid
value returned when
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
is called.
The
.I propname
argument is the name of the property whose value is to be replaced.
The
.I value
argument is the value to which the session property is set.
If value is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the property
is removed entirely.
The
.I length
argument is the size of the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_session_bprop_set (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPLEN
.br
The specified property value is too long.
(The maximum size is implementation specific, but is at least 2048.)
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPNAME
.br
The specified property name is syntactically invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
