.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_session_prop 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_session_prop.3" "" "tt_session_prop.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_session_prop \- return the ith value of a session property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_session_prop('u
char *tt_session_prop(const char *\f2sessid\fP,
	const char *\f2propname\fP,
	int \f2i\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_session_prop (\|)
function
returns the
.IR i th
value of the specified session property.
.PP
The
.I sessid
argument is the name of the session joined.
The application can use the
.I sessid
value returned when
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
is called.
The
.I propname
argument is the name of the property from which a value is to be retrieved.
The name
must be less than 64 bytes.
The
.I i
argument is the number of the item in the property name list
for which the value is to be obtained.
The list numbering begins with zero.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_session_prop (\|)
function returns the value of the requested property.
If there are
.I i
values or fewer, it returns
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPNAME
.br
The specified property name is syntactically invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.PP
If the returned value has embedded nulls, it is
impossible to determine how long it is.
The application can use
.BR tt_session_bprop (3)
for values with embedded nulls.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
