.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_spec_bprop 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_spec_bprop.3" "" "tt_spec_bprop.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_spec_bprop \- retrieve the ith value of a property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_spec_bprop('u
Tt_status tt_spec_bprop(const char *\f2objid\fP,
	const char *\f2propname\fP,
	int \f2i\fP,
	unsigned char **\f2value\fP,
	int *\f2length\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_spec_bprop (\|)
function
retrieves the
.IR i th
value of the specified property.
.PP
The
.I objid
argument is the identifier of the object involved in this operation.
The
.I propname
argument is the name of the property whose value is to be retrieved.
The name must be
less than 64 characters.
The
.I i
argument is the item of the list for which a value is to be obtained.
The list numbering
begins with zero.
The
.I value
argument is the
address of a character pointer to which the ToolTalk service is to point a
string that contains the contents of the spec's property.
If there are
.I i
values
or fewer, the pointer is set to zero.
The
.I length
argument is the address of an integer to which the
ToolTalk service is to set the length of the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_spec_bprop (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
.I objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPNAME
.br
The specified property name is syntactically invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
