.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_spec_create 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_spec_create.3" "" "tt_spec_create.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_spec_create \- create an in-memory spec for an object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_spec_create('u
char *tt_spec_create(const char *\f2filepath\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_spec_create (\|)
function
creates a spec (in memory) for an object.
.PP
The application can use the
objid
returned in future calls to manipulate the object.
.PP
The
.I filepath
argument is the name of the file.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_spec_create (\|)
function returns the identifier for this object.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
ToolTalk database needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the
specified ToolTalk database in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OTYPE
.br
The specified object type is not the name of an installed object type.
.Lc TT_ERR_PATH
.br
The specified pathname included an unsearchable directory.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.PP
To make the object a permanent ToolTalk item or one visible to other
processes, the creating process must call
.BR tt_spec_write (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_spec_type_set (3),
.BR tt_spec_write (3),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
