.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_session_propname 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_session_propname.3" "" "tt_session_propname.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_session_propname \- returns an element of the list of property names for a session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_session_propname('u
char *tt_session_propname(const char *\f2sessid\fP,
	int \f2n\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_session_propname (\|)
function
returns the
.IR n th
element of the list of currently defined property names for
the specified session.
.PP
The
.I sessid
argument is the name of the session joined.
The application can use the
.I sessid
value returned when
.BR tt_default_session (\|)
is called.
The
.I n
argument is the number of the item in the property name list for which a name is to be
obtained.
The list numbering begins with zero.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_session_propname (\|)
function returns the name of the specified property
from the session property list.
If there are
.I n
properties or fewer,
.BR tt_session_propname (\|)
returns
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NUM
.br
The integer value passed was invalid (out of range).
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3).
