.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_spec_bprop_set 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_spec_bprop_set.3" "" "tt_spec_bprop_set.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_spec_bprop_set \- replace any current values stored under this spec property with a new byte-string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tt_spec_bprop_set('u
Tt_status tt_spec_bprop_set(const char *\f2objid\fP,
	const char *\f2propname\fP,
	const unsigned char *\f2value\fP,
	int \f2length\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_spec_bprop_set (\|)
function
replaces any current values stored under this spec property with a new
byte-string.
.PP
The
.I objid
argument is the identifier of the object involved in this operation.
The
.I propname
argument is the name of the property which stores the values.
The
.I value
argument is the byte-string to be added to the property value list.
If the value is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the property is removed entirely.
The
.I length
argument is the length of the value in bytes.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_spec_bprop_set (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OBJID
.br
The
.I objid
passed to the ToolTalk service does not reference an existing object spec.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPLEN
.br
The specified property value is too long.
(The maximum size is implementation specific, but is at least 64.)
.Lc TT_ERR_PROPNAME
.br
The specified property name is syntactically invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5).
