.TH tt_thread_session_set 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.IX "tt_thread_session_set" "" "tt_thread_session_set.3" ""
.SH NAME
tt_thread_session_set - set the default session identifier for the currently active thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include
<\fBTt/tt_c.h\fR>
.br
.B Tt_status tt_thread_session_set
.RB (
.I const char *sessid
.RB );
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B tt_thread_session_set()
function sets the default session identifier for the currently active thread.
.PP
The ToolTalk service uses the initial user  session  as  the default  session  and supports one session per \fIprocid\fR. The application can make this call before it calls 
.BR tt_open (3)
to specify the session to which it wants to connect in the active thread.
.PP
The \fIsessid\fR argument is a pointer to the unique identifier for the session in which the \fIprocid\fR is interested.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \fBtt_thread_session_set()\fR function returns the status of the operation as one of the following \fITt_status\fR values:
.HP 8
.PD 0
.BR TT_OK
.PD
The operation completed successfully.
.TP
.BR TT_WRN_NOT_ENABLED
The feature has not yet been enabled.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_NOMP
The 
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_PROCID
The current default process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_SESSION
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
.PP
To change to another opened session, the application must use either
.BR tt_thread_procid_set (3)
or \
.BR tt_default_procid_set (3).
.PP
To join other sessions, the procid must first set the new session as  the  default session, and then initialize and register with the ToolTalk service.  The calls required must be in the following order:
.HP 8
.PD 0
.B tt_thread_session_set() 
or 
.BR tt_default_session_set (3) 
.BR tt_open (3)
.PP
The 
.BR tt_open (3)
may create another ToolTalk \fIprocid\fR, the  connection  to which is identified by a \fIprocid\fR. Only one ToolTalk session per \fIprocid\fR is allowed.  (However, multiple \fIprocids\fR are allowed in a client.)  There are no API calls to determine to which session a particular \fIprocid\fR is connected. If it is important for the application to know the session to which it is connected. It must make the  following  calls in the indicated order:
.HP 8
.PD 0
.BR tt_open (3)
.BR tt_thread_session (3)
.PP
The application can then store the information by indexing it by the \fIprocid\fR returned by the 
.BR tt_open (3)
call.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.PP
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR tt_default_procid (3),
.BR tt_thread_procid (3),
.BR tt_default_session (3),
.BR tt_thread_session (3).
