.TH tt_thread_session 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions" 
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.IX "tt_thread_session" "" "tt_thread_session.3" ""
.SH NAME
tt_thread_session - retrieve the default session identifier for the currently active thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include
<\fBTt/tt_c.h\fR>
.br
.B char *tt_thread_session
.RB (
.I void
.RB );
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B tt_thread_session()
function retrieves the default session identifier for the currently active thread.
.PP
If there is no default session set for the currently-active thread, then the process default session identifier is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \fBtt_thread_session()\fR function returns the pointer to the unique identifier for the active thread's current default session. If the pointer is NULL, no default session is set. The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following \fBTt_status\fR values from the returned pointer:
.HP 8
.PD 0
.BR TT_OK
.PD
The operation completed successfully.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_NOMP
The 
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.TP
.BR TT_ERR_PROCID
The current default process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
.PP
A session can have more than one session identifier. This means that the  application cannot compare the result of \fBtt_thread_session()\fR with the result of 
.BR tt_message_session (3)
to verify that the message was sent in the default session.
.PP
The application should use 
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the ToolTalk API.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.PP
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_prt_error (3),
.BR tt_free (3)
