.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tt_X_session 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tt_X_session.3" "" "tt_X_session.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tt_X_session \- return the session associated with an X window system display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tt_c.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'char *tt_X_session('u
char *tt_X_session(const char *\f2xdisplaystring\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tt_X_session (\|)
function
returns the session associated with the named X window system display.
.PP
The application can call
.BR tt_X_session (\|)
before it calls
.BR tt_open (3).
.PP
The
.I xdisplaystring
argument is the name of an X display server; for example,
.BR somehost:0
or
.BR :0 .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tt_X_session (\|)
function returns the identifier for the ToolTalk session
associated with the named X window system display.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned pointer:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The
.I xdisplaystring
does not name an X display.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I xdisplaystring
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tt_free (3)
to free any data stored in the address returned by the
ToolTalk API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tt_c (5),
.BR tt_ptr_error (3),
.BR tt_open (3),
.BR tt_free (3),
