.TH ttdt_close 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_close.3" "" "ttdt_close.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_close \- destroy a ToolTalk communication endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_close('u
Tt_status ttdt_close(const char *\f2procid\fP,
	const char *\f2new_procid\fP,
	int \f2sendStopped\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_close (\|)
function destroys a ToolTalk communication endpoint.
.PP
If
.I sendStopped
is True, the
.BR ttdt_close (\|)
function sends a
.I Stopped
notice; otherwise, it sends no notice.
If
.I procid
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_close (\|)
calls
.BR tt_default_procid_set (\|)
with a
.I procid
argument and then calls
.BR tt_close (\|);
otherwise, it closes the current default
procid.
If
.I new_procid
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_close (\|)
calls
.BR tt_default_procid_set (\|)
with a
.I new_procid
argument.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.BR ttdt_close (\|)
function may return any of the errors returned by
.BR tt_default_procid_set (3)
and
.BR tt_close (3).
.PP
No errors are propagated if sending the
.I Stopped
notice fails.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_open (3),
.BR tt_default_procid_set (3),
.BR tt_close (3).
