.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_session_join 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_session_join.3" "" "ttdt_session_join.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_session_join \- join a ToolTalk session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_pattern *ttdt_session_join('u
Tt_pattern *ttdt_session_join(const char *\f2sessid\fP,
	Ttdt_contract_cb \f2cb\fP,
	Widget \f2shell\fP,
	void *\f2clientdata\fP,
	int \f2join\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
function
joins the session
.IR sessid ,
registering patterns and
default callbacks for many standard Desktop message interfaces.
If
.I sessid
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the default session is joined.
.PP
The
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
function
registers for the following
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1 -\c
addressed requests:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI (1)
.IR Get_Environment ,
.IR Set_Environment ,
.IR Get_Locale ,
.IR Set_Locale ,
.IR Get_Situation ,
.IR Set_Situation ,
.IR Signal ,
.IR Get_Sysinfo
.LI (2)
.IR Get_Geometry ,
.IR Set_Geometry ,
.IR Get_Iconified ,
.IR Set_Iconified ,
.IR Get_Mapped ,
.IR Set_Mapped ,
.IR Raise ,
.IR Lower ,
.IR Get_XInfo ,
.IR Set_XInfo
.LI (3)
.IR Pause ,
.IR Resume ,
.IR Quit
.LI (4)
.IR Get_Status ,
.IR Do_Command
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
If
.I join
is True,
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
actually joins the indicated session.
.PP
The ToolTalk service
handles messages in (1) transparently.
.PP
If
.I shell
is non-\c
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then it is expected to be a realized
.I mappedWhenManaged
.IR applicationShellWidget ,
and
the ToolTalk service
handles messages in (2) transparently.
(If
.I shell
is merely a realized widget, then
the ToolTalk service
handles only the
.IR Get_XInfo
request, and
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
fails the rest of (2) with
.BR \s-1TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP\s+1 .)
If
.I shell
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then
the ToolTalk service
treats messages in (2) equivalently to those in (4).
.PP
If
.I shell
is non-\c
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
and
.I cb
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then
the ToolTalk service
handles messages in (3) transparently as follows;
otherwise, it treats them as equivalent to those in (4).
The
.IR Quit
request results in a
.BR \s-1WM_DELETE_WINDOW\s+1
event on
.I shell
if the
.I silent
and
.I force
arguments of the
.IR Quit
request are both False.
In other words, if
.I shell
is supplied without a
.IR cb ,
then a
.IR Quit
request may imply that the user
quit the application's top-level window using the window manager.
.IR Pause
and
.IR Resume
requests result in
the ToolTalk service
passing
.I shell
and the appropriate boolean value to
.BR XtSetSensitive (3X).
.PP
If
.I cb
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the ToolTalk service passes
messages in (4) to
.IR cb ;
otherwise,
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
fails with
.BR \s-1TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP\s+1 .
.PP
The
.B Ttdt_contract_cb
argument is a callback defined as:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
.ta \w'Tt_message (*Ttdt_contract_cb)('u
Tt_message (*Ttdt_contract_cb)(Tt_message \f2msg\fP,
	void *\f2clientdata\fP,
	Tt_message \f2contract\fP);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I msg
argument is
a message in
.B Tt_state
.BR \s-1TT_SENT\s+1 .
If
.I msg
is a
.BR \s-1TT_REQUEST\s+1 ,
the client program becomes responsible for either failing,
rejecting or replying to
.IR msg .
After doing so, the client program may dispose of
.I msg
with
.BR tttk_message_destroy (\|).
The
.I clientdata
argument is the
.I clientdata
passed to
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
or
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3).
The
.I contract
argument is the
.I contract
passed to
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|).
For callbacks installed by
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|),
.I contract
is always zero.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
function
returns a null-terminated array of
.BR Tt_pattern ;
otherwise, it returns an error pointer.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object
of the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_SESSION
.br
The specified ToolTalk session is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The null-terminated array of
.BR Tt_pattern
returned by
.BR ttdt_session_join (\|)
should be destroyed by passing the array to
.BR ttdt_file_quit (3).
.PP
The ToolTalk service will reply to the
.IR Quit
request before generating the
.BR \s-1WM_DELETE_WINDOW\s+1
event.
If the application catches and cancels this event,
then the sender of the
.IR Quit
request will be misled
into thinking the application actually quit.
Applications that can cancel
.BR \s-1WM_DELETE_WINDOW\s+1
should install a real
.BR Ttdt_contract_cb .
.PP
The ToolTalk service handles the
.IR Pause
and
.IR Resume
requests by setting the sensitivity of
.IR widget .
If
.I widget
is the parent of any top-level pop-up shells,
.BR XtSetSensitive (3X)
will not affect them.
Applications that can have such pop-ups
should install a real
.BR Ttdt_contract_cb .
.PP
A
.B Ttdt_contract_cb
should return zero if it processes
.I msg
successfully, or a
.BR tt_error_pointer (\|)
cast to
.B Tt_message
if processing results in an error.
It should return the
.I msg
if it does not consume it.
If
.I msg
is returned, then the ToolTalk service passes
.BR \s-1TT_CALLBACK_CONTINUE\s+1
down the call stack, so that
.I msg
will be offered to other callbacks or (more likely) be returned from
.BR tt_message_receive (3).
Applications will rarely want
.I msg
to get processed by other callbacks or in the main event loop.
.SH EXAMPLES
This is the typical algorithm of a
.B Ttdt_contract_cb
for an application that handles
.IR Pause ,
.IR Resume
or
.IR Quit
requests for itself, but lets the ToolTalk service
handle the X11-related requests listed in (2).
Since this example callback deals with the case when
.I contract
is not zero, it can also be used as the
.B Ttdt_contract_cb
passed to
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|).
.PP
.sp -1
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Tt_message myContractCB(Tt_message      msg,
	void           *clientdata,
	Tt_message      contract)
{
	char *opString = tt_message_op(msg);
	Tttk_op op = tttk_string_op(opString);
	tt_free(opString);
	int silent = 0;
	int force  = 0;
	Boolean cancel = False;
	Boolean sensitive = True;
	char *status, command;
	switch(op) {
	    case TTDT_QUIT:
		tt_message_arg_ival(msg, 0, &silent);
		tt_message_arg_ival(msg, 1, &force);
		if (contract == 0) {
			/* Quit entire application */
			cancel = ! myQuitWholeApp(silent, force);
		} else {
			/* Quit just the specified request being worked on */
			cancel = ! myCancelThisRequest(contract, silent, force);
		}
		if (cancel) {
			/* User canceled Quit; fail the Quit request */
			tttk_message_fail(msg, TT_DESKTOP_ECANCELED, 0, 1);
		} else {
			tt_message_reply(msg);
			tttk_message_destroy(msg);
		}
		return 0;
	    case TTDT_PAUSE:
		sensitive = False;
	    case TTDT_RESUME:
		if (contract == 0) {
			int already = 1;
			if (XtIsSensitive(myTopShell) != sensitive) {
				already = 0;
				XtSetSensitive(myTopShell, sensitive);
			}
			if (already) {
				tt_message_status_set(msg, TT_DESKTOP_EALREADY);
			}
		} else {
			if (XtIsSensitive(thisShell) == sensitive) {
				tt_message_status_set(msg, TT_DESKTOP_EALREADY);
			} else {
				XtSetSensitive(thisShell, sensitive);
			}
		}
		tt_message_reply(msg);
		tttk_message_destroy(msg);
		return 0;
	    case TTDT_GET_STATUS:
		if (contract == 0) {
			status = "Message about status of entire app";
		} else {
			status = "Message about status of this request";
		}
		tt_message_arg_val_set(msg, 0, status);
		tt_message_reply(msg);
		tttk_message_destroy(msg);
		return 0;
	    case TTDT_DO_COMMAND:
		if (! haveExtensionLanguage) {
			tttk_message_fail(msg, TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP, 0, 1);
			return 0;
		}
		command = tt_message_arg_val(msg, 0);
		result = myEval(command);
		tt_free(command);
		tt_message_status_set(msg, result);
		if (tt_is_err(result)) {
			tttk_message_fail(msg, result, 0, 1);
		} else {
			tt_message_reply(msg);
			tttk_message_destroy(msg);
		}
		return 0;
	}
	/* Unrecognized message; do not consume it */
	return msg;
}
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_session_quit (3),
.BR tt_session_join (3),
.BR XtSetSensitive (3X).
