.TH ttdt_Get_Modified 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_Get_Modified.3" "" "ttdt_Get_Modified.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_Get_Modified \- ask if any ToolTalk client has changes pending on a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'int ttdt_Get_Modified('u
int ttdt_Get_Modified(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	const char *\f2pathname\fP,
	Tt_scope \f2the_scope\fP,
	XtAppContext \f2app2run\fP,
	int \f2ms_timeout\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|)
function
sends a
.IR Get_Modified
request in the scope
.I the_scope
and waits for the reply.
A
.IR Get_Modified
request asks if any ToolTalk client has
changes pending on
.I pathname
that it intends to make persistent.
.PP
The
.I context
argument describes the environment to use.
If
.I context
is not zero, messages created by
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|)
inherit from
.I context
all contexts whose slotname begins with the characters
.BR \s-1ENV_\s+1 .
That is, the environment described in
.I context
is propagated to messages created by
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|).
.PP
The
.I pathname
argument is a pointer to a pathname
on which the client is operating.
.PP
The
.I the_scope
argument identifies the scope of the request.
If
.I the_scope
is
.BR \s-1TT_SCOPE_NONE\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|)
tries
.BR \s-1TT_BOTH\s+1 ,
and falls back to
.BR \s-1TT_FILE_IN_SESSION\s+1
if, for example,
the ToolTalk database server
is not installed on the file server that owns
.IR pathname .
.PP
The
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|)
function
passes
.I app2run
and
.I ms_timeout
to
.BR tttk_block_while (3),
blocking on the reply to the
.IR Get_Modified
request it sends.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|)
function returns non-zero if the
.IR Get_Modified
request receives an affirmative reply within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR ttdt_file_event (3),
.BR tttk_block_while (3).
