.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_message_accept 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_message_accept.3" "" "ttdt_message_accept.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_message_accept \- accept a contract to handle a ToolTalk request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_pattern *ttdt_message_accept('u
Tt_pattern *ttdt_message_accept(Tt_message \f2contract\fP,
	Ttdt_contract_cb \f2cb\fP,
	void *\f2clientdata\fP,
	Widget \f2shell\fP,
	int \f2accept\fP,
	int \f2sendStatus\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|)
function
registers in the default session for
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1 -\c
addressed requests:
.PP
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI (1)
.IR Get_Geometry ,
.IR Set_Geometry ,
.IR Get_Iconified ,
.IR Set_Iconified ,
.IR Get_Mapped ,
.IR Set_Mapped ,
.IR Raise ,
.IR Lower ,
.IR Get_XInfo ,
.IR Set_XInfo
.LI (2)
.IR Pause ,
.IR Resume
.LI (3)
.IR Quit ,
.IR Get_Status
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
If the
.I shell
argument is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the ToolTalk service
handles messages in (1) transparently;
otherwise, it treats them like messages in (3).
.PP
If
.I shell
is non-\c
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
and
.I cb
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then
the ToolTalk service
handles messages in (2) transparently by passing
.I shell
and the appropriate boolean value to
.BR XtSetSensitive (3X).
If
.I cb
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then
the ToolTalk service
treats messages in (2) like (3).
.PP
If
.I cb
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|)
passes messages in (3) to the
.I cb
callback; otherwise it fails with
.BR \s-1TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP\s+1 .
.PP
If
.I accept
is True,
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|)
calls
.BR tt_message_accept (3)
with a
.I contract
argument.
If
.I contract
has a returned value from
.BR tt_message_status (\|)
of
.BR \s-1TT_WRN_START_MESSAGE\s+1 ,
it is the message that caused the tool to be started.
The tool should join any scopes it wants to serve before accepting
.IR contract ,
so that it will receive any other messages already dispatched to its
ptype.
Otherwise, those messages will cause other instances of the
ptype
to be started.
If that is in fact desired (for example,
because the tool can only service one message at a time), then
the tool should undeclare its
ptype
while it is busy.
.PP
If
.I sendStatus
is True,
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|)
sends a
.IR Status
notice to the requester, using the
arguments (if any) passed to
.BR ttdt_open (\|).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|)
function
returns a null-terminated array of
.BR Tt_pattern ,
and associates this array with
.IR contract ;
otherwise, it returns an error pointer.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object
of the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_UNIMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
for the default session is of a version that does not support
.BR tt_message_accept (\|).
If
.I contract
is a
.BR \s-1TT_WRN_START_MESSAGE\s+1 ,
messages to the tool's
ptype
will remain blocked until
.I contract
is rejected, replied to, or failed.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|)
function
is what a tool calls when it wants to accept responsibility for
handling (that is, failing or rejecting) a request.
.PP
If
.I contract
is destroyed by
.BR tttk_message_destroy (3),
then the patterns will also be destroyed.
Otherwise, the caller
is responsible for iterating over the array and destroying each
pattern.
.SH EXAMPLES
See
.BR ttdt_session_join (3)
for an example of a
.B Ttdt_contract_cb
callback that can be used with
.BR ttdt_message_accept (\|).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_open (3),
.BR ttmedia_ptype_declare (3),
.BR tt_ptype_declare (3),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR tt_ptype_undeclare (3),
.BR tt_ptype_undeclare (3),
.BR XtSetSensitive (3X).
