.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_subcontract_manage 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_subcontract_manage.3" "" "ttdt_subcontract_manage.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_subcontract_manage \- manage an outstanding request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_pattern *ttdt_subcontract_manage('u
Tt_pattern *ttdt_subcontract_manage(Tt_message \f2subcontract\fP,
	Ttdt_contract_cb \f2cb\fP,
	Widget \f2shell\fP,
	void *\f2clientdata\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_subcontract_manage (\|)
function
allows a requester to manage the standard Desktop interactions
with the tool that is handling the request.
The
.BR ttdt_subcontract_manage (\|)
function registers in the default session for
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1 -\c
addressed requests
.IR Get_Geometry
and
.IR Get_XInfo ,
and
.IR Status
notices.
.PP
If
.I shell
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the ToolTalk service
handles the
.IR Get_Geometry
and
.IR Get_XInfo ,
and
.IR Status
notices transparently;
otherwise, it passes them to
.IR cb .
.PP
See
.BR ttdt_session_join (3)
for a description of a
.B Ttdt_contract_cb
callback.
.PP
If
.I subcontract
is destroyed by
.BR tttk_message_destroy (\|),
then the patterns will also be destroyed;
otherwise, the caller
is responsible for iterating over the array and destroying each pattern.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_subcontract_manage (\|)
function
returns a null-terminated array of
.BR Tt_pattern ,
and associates this array with
.IR subcontract ;
otherwise, it returns an error pointer.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EINVAL
.br
Both the
.I shell
and
.I cb
arguments were
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I subcontract
argument was not a valid
.BR Tt_message .
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_session_join (3),
.BR tttk_message_destroy (3).
