.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_sender_imprint_on 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_sender_imprint_on.3" "" "ttdt_sender_imprint_on.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_sender_imprint_on \- act like a child of the specified tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_sender_imprint_on('u
Tt_status ttdt_sender_imprint_on(const char *\f2handler\fP,
	Tt_message \f2contract\fP,
	char **\f2display\fP,
	int *\f2width\fP,
	int *\f2height\fP,
	int *\f2xoffset\fP,
	int *\f2yoffset\fP,
	XtAppContext \f2app2run\fP,
	int \f2ms_timeout\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
function
is used to make the calling tool act equivalently to a child of
another specified tool.
The calling tool adopts the other
tool's X11 display, locale, and current working directory.
It also learns the other tool's X11 geometry, so that it may
position itself appropriately.
.PP
If the
.I handler
argument is non-\c
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the requests are addressed to that procid using
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1 .
If
.I handler
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
and the
.I contract
argument is non-\c
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
the requests are addressed to the
.BR tt_message_sender (3)
of the contract, using
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1 .
.PP
The
.I contract
argument is passed to
.BR tttk_message_create (3)
as the
.I context
argument.
.PP
If the
.I display
argument is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
returns the other tool's display in
.IR *display .
If
.I display
is
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
sets the
.I DISPLAY
environment variable to the other tool's display.
.PP
If each of the
.IR width ,
.IR height ,
.IR xoffset ,
and
.I yoffset
arguments are
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
does not send the other tool a
.IR Get_Geometry
request.
.PP
The
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
function
passes the
.I app2run
and
.I ms_timeout
arguments to
.BR tttk_block_while (3),
blocking on the replies to the requests it sends.
.PP
If the
.I display
argument is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
sets
.I *display
to a string that can be freed with
.BR tt_free (\|).
.PP
If for some reason no width or height is returned by the other tool,
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
sets
.IR *width
or
.IR *height
to \(mi1.
If no positional information is returned,
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
sets
.IR *xoffset
and
.IR *yoffset
to {INT_MAX}.
.br
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_sender_imprint_on (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ETIMEDOUT
.br
One or more of the sent requests did not complete within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is
.ne 2
implementation specific, but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If both the
.I handler
and
.I contract
are zero, the requests are addressed to no tool in
particular, using
.BR \s-1TT_PROCEDURE\s+1 ;
this is not recommended.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR tt_free (3),
.BR tt_message_sender (3),
.BR tttk_block_while (3),
.BR tttk_message_create (3).
