.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_file_quit 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_file_quit.3" "" "ttdt_file_quit.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_file_quit \- unregister interest in ToolTalk events about a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_file_quit('u
Tt_status ttdt_file_quit(Tt_pattern *\f2patterns\fP,
	int \f2quit\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_file_quit (\|)
function
is used to unregister interest in the
.I pathname
that was passed to
.BR ttdt_file_join (3)
when
.I patterns
was created.
The
.BR ttdt_file_quit (\|)
function destroys
.I patterns
and sets the default file to
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
.PP
If
.I quit
is True,
.BR ttdt_file_quit (\|)
calls
.BR tt_file_quit (3)
with a
.I pathname
argument; otherwise, it returns without quitting.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_file_quit (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the ToolTalk database
needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the specified ToolTalk database
in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I patterns
argument was
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
or otherwise invalid.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR tt_default_file (3),
.BR tt_file_quit (3).
