.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_file_request 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_file_request.3" "" "ttdt_file_request.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_file_request \- create and send a standard ToolTalk request about a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message ttdt_file_request('u
Tt_message ttdt_file_request(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	Tttk_op \f2op\fP,
	Tt_scope \f2scope\fP,
	const char *\f2pathname\fP,
	Ttdt_file_cb \f2cb\fP,
	void *\f2client_data\fP,
	int \f2send_and_destroy\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
function
is used to create (and optionally send) any of
the standard Desktop file requests
such as
.IR Get_Modified ,
.IR Save ,
and
.IR Revert .
.PP
The
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
function
creates a request with the specified
.I op
and
.IR scope ,
and sets its file attribute to
.IR pathname .
The function adds an unset argument of
.B Tt_mode
.BR \s-1TT_IN\s+1
and
vtype
.IR File
to the request, per the Desktop messaging conventions.
If
.I op
is
.BR \s-1TTDT_GET_MODIFIED\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
also adds an unset
.BR \s-1TT_OUT\s+1
argument of
vtype
.IR Boolean
to the request.
The
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
function
installs
.I cb
as a message callback for the created request, and ensures that
.I client_data
will be passed into the callback.
(The
.B Ttdt_file_cb
callback is described under
.BR ttdt_file_join (3)).
If
.I send
is True,
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
sends the request before returning the handle to it;
otherwise, it only creates the request.
.PP
The
.I context
argument describes the environment to use.
If
.I context
is not zero, messages created by
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
inherit from
.I context
all contexts whose slotname begins with the characters
.BR \s-1ENV_\s+1 .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
function returns the created
.BR Tt_message ;
otherwise, it returns an error pointer.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the ToolTalk database
needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the specified ToolTalk database
in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is
.ne 2
implementation specific, but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I pathname
argument was
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
or was a ToolTalk error pointer.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR ttdt_file_request (\|)
function
is a lower-level interface than
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (\|),
.BR ttdt_Save (\|),
and
.BR ttdt_Revert (\|),
since the latter functions create and send the request and then block
on its reply.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (3),
.BR ttdt_Save (3),
.BR ttdt_Revert (3),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3).
