.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_Save 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_Save.3" "" "ttdt_Save.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_Save \- request a ToolTalk client to save a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_Save('u
Tt_status ttdt_Save(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	const char *\f2pathname\fP,
	Tt_scope \f2the_scope\fP,
	XtAppContext \f2app2run\fP,
	int \f2ms_timeout\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_Save (\|)
function
sends a
.IR Save
request in the
.I the_scope
argument and waits for the reply.
A
.IR Save
request asks the handling ToolTalk client to
save any changes pending on
.IR pathname .
.PP
The
.I context
argument describes the environment to use.
If
.I context
is not zero, messages created by
.BR ttdt_Save (\|)
inherit from
.I context
all contexts whose slotname begins with the characters
.BR \s-1ENV_\s+1 .
.PP
The
.I the_scope
argument identifies the scope of the request.
If
.I the_scope
is
.BR \s-1TT_SCOPE_NONE\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_Save (\|)
tries
.BR \s-1TT_BOTH\s+1 ,
and falls back to
.BR \s-1TT_FILE_IN_SESSION\s+1
if, for example,
the ToolTalk database server
is not installed on the file server that owns
.IR pathname .
.PP
The
.BR ttdt_Save (\|)
function
passes
.I app2run
and
.I ms_timeout
to
.BR tttk_block_while (3),
blocking on the reply to the
.IR Save
request it sends.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_Save (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The sent request received an affirmative reply within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_ETIMEDOUT
.br
No reply was received within
.I ms_timeout
milliseconds.
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EPROTO
.br
The request was failed, but the handler set the
.BR tt_message_status (\|)
of the failure reply to
.BR \s-1TT_OK\s+1 ,
instead of a specific error status.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBAVAIL
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the ToolTalk database
needed for this operation.
.Lc TT_ERR_DBEXIST
.br
The ToolTalk service could not access the specified ToolTalk database
in the expected place.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is
.ne 2
implementation specific, but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I pathname
argument was
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1
or was a ToolTalk error pointer.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_Revert (3),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR ttdt_file_event (3),
.BR tttk_block_while (3).
