.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH ttdt_file_event 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttdt_file_event.3" "" "ttdt_file_event.3" "" 
.SH NAME
ttdt_file_event \- use ToolTalk to announce an event about a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status ttdt_file_event('u
Tt_status ttdt_file_event(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	Tttk_op \f2event\fP,
	Tt_pattern *\f2patterns\fP,
	int \f2send\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
function
is used to create and send a ToolTalk notice announcing an event
pertaining to a file.
The file is indicated by the
.I pathname
argument that was passed to
.BR ttdt_file_join (3)
when
.I patterns
was created.
.PP
The
.I event
argument identifies the event.
If
.I event
is
.BR \s-1TTDT_MODIFIED\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
registers in the
.I the_scope
argument passed to
.BR ttdt_file_join (3)
to handle
.IR Get_Modified ,
.IR Save ,
and
.I Revert
requests.
.IR Get_Modified
is handled transparently by associating the
modified state of the file with
.IR patterns .
.IR Save
and
.IR Revert
requests are passed to the
.B Ttdt_file_cb
that was given to
.BR ttdt_file_join (3).
If
.I send
is True,
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
sends
.IR Modified
in
.IR the_scope .
If
.I event
is
.BR \s-1TTDT_SAVED\s+1
or
.BR \s-1TTDT_REVERTED\s+1 ,
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
unregisters handler patterns for
.IR Get_Modified ,
.IR Save ,
and
.I Revert
requests.
If
.I send
is True,
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
sends
.IR Saved
or
.IR Reverted ,
respectively, in
.IR the_scope .
.PP
The
.I context
argument describes the environment to use.
If
.I context
is not zero, messages created by
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
inherit from
.I context
all contexts whose slotname begins with the characters
.BR \s-1ENV_\s+1 .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR ttdt_file_event (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_OVERFLOW
.br
The ToolTalk service has more active messages than it can handle.
(The maximum number of active messages is
.ne 2
implementation specific, but is at least 2000.)
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The
.I patterns
argument was
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_file_join (3),
.BR ttdt_Get_Modified (3),
.BR ttdt_file_quit (3).
