.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tttk_message_create 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tttk_message_create.3" "" "tttk_message_create.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tttk_message_create \- create a message conforming to the \s-1CDE\s+1 conventions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_message tttk_message_create('u
Tt_message tttk_message_create(Tt_message \f2context\fP,
	Tt_class \f2the_class\fP,
	Tt_scope \f2the_scope\fP,
	const char *\f2handler\fP,
	const char *\f2op\fP,
	Tt_message_callback \f2callback\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tttk_message_create (\|)
function
creates a message that propagates inherited contexts
from one message to another.
The
.BR tttk_message_create (\|)
function creates a message and copies onto it all the context slots from
.I context
whose slotname begins with the characters
.BR \s-1ENV_\s+1 .
It gives
the created message a
.B Tt_class
of
.I the_class
and a
.B Tt_scope
of
.IR the_scope .
If
.I handler
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
then
.BR tttk_message_create (\|)
addresses the message as a
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1
to that
procid;
otherwise, it gives the message a
.B Tt_address
of
.BR \s-1TT_PROCEDURE\s+1 .
It sets
the message's op to
.I op
if
.I op
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 .
If
.I callback
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR tttk_message_create (\|)
adds it to the message as a message callback.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tttk_message_create (\|)
function
returns the created
.B Tt_message ,
which can be modified, sent, and destroyed like any other
.B Tt_message ;
otherwise, it returns an error pointer.
The application can use
.BR tt_ptr_error (3)
to extract one of the following
.B Tt_status
values from the returned handle:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMEM
.br
There is insufficient memory available to perform the function.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_PROCID
.br
The specified process identifier is out of date or invalid.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR tt_message_create (3),
.BR tttk_message_create (3),
.BR ttdt_file_notice (3),
.BR ttdt_file_request (3).
