.TH tttk_Xt_input_handler 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tttk_Xt_input_handler.3" "" "tttk_Xt_input_handler.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tttk_Xt_input_handler \- Process ToolTalk events for Xt clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'void tttk_Xt_input_handler('u
void tttk_Xt_input_handler(XtPointer \f2procid\fP,
	int *\f2source\fP,
	XtInputId *\f2id\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I procid
is not
.BR \s-1NULL\s+1 ,
.BR tttk_Xt_input_handler (\|)
passes it to
.BR tt_default_procid_set (3).
The
.BR tttk_Xt_input_handler (\|)
function then calls
.BR tt_message_receive (3),
which retrieves the next message available, if any, for the default
procid.
If
.BR tt_message_receive (3)
returns
.BR \s-1TT_ERR_NOMP\s+1 ,
then
.BR tttk_Xt_input_handler (\|)
closes the default
procid
with
.BR ttdt_close (3),
and removes the input source
.I *id
with
.BR XtRemoveInput (3X)
if
.I id
is not zero.
If a message is available and
.BR tt_message_receive (3)
returns it (indicating it was not consumed by any message or pattern
callback), then the ToolTalk service passes the message to
.BR tttk_message_abandon (3).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.BR tttk_Xt_input_handler (\|)
function returns no value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The application should use
.BR tttk_Xt_input_handler (\|)
as its Xt input handler unless some
messages are expected not to be consumed by callbacks.
(The only messages that
absolutely cannot be intercepted and consumed by callbacks are those
that match observe signatures in a
ptype
or
otype.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.sp -1
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
int myTtFd;
char *myProcID;
myProcID = ttdt_open(&myTtFd, "WhizzyCalc", "Acme", "1.0", 1);
/* ... */
/* Process the message that started us, if any */
tttk_Xt_input_handler(myProcID, 0, 0);
/* ... */
XtAppAddInput(myContext, myTtFd, (XtPointer)XtInputReadMask,
		tttk_Xt_input_handler, myProcID);
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR ttdt_close (3),
.BR tttk_message_abandon (3),
.BR tt_default_procid_set (3),
.BR tt_message_receive (3),
.BR XtAppAddInput (3X),
.BR XtRemoveInput (3X).
