.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tttk_message_destroy 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tttk_message_destroy.3" "" "tttk_message_destroy.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tttk_message_destroy \- destroy a message conforming to the \s-1CDE\s+1 conventions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tttk_message_destroy('u
Tt_status tttk_message_destroy(Tt_message \f2msg\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tttk_message_destroy (\|)
function
can be used in place of
.BR tt_message_destroy (3).
It destroys any patterns that may have been stored on
.I msg
by
.BR ttdt_message_accept (3)
or
.BR ttdt_subcontract_manage (3).
Then it passes
.I msg
to
.BR tt_message_destroy (3).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tttk_message_destroy (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object of
the correct type for this operation.
.Lc TT_WRN_STOPPED
.br
The message is not actually destroyed.
(A message is not destroyed if it is in a non-final state;
for example, a request for which the reply has not been received.)
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR tt_message_create (3),
.BR tt_message_destroy (3),
.BR ttdt_file_notice (3),
.BR ttdt_file_request (3).
