.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH tttk_message_abandon 3 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Functions"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "tttk_message_abandon.3" "" "tttk_message_abandon.3" "" 
.SH NAME
tttk_message_abandon \- finalize a message properly
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.nf
#include <Tt/tttk.h>
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Tt_status tttk_message_abandon('u
Tt_status tttk_message_abandon(Tt_message \f2msg\fP);
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR tttk_message_abandon (\|)
function is used by an application
when it does not understand a message
and wants to get rid of it.
The
.BR tttk_message_abandon (\|)
function fails or rejects
.I msg
if appropriate, and then destroys it.
The
.BR tttk_message_abandon (\|)
will reject or fail the message only if
.I msg
is a
.BR \s-1TT_REQUEST\s+1
in
.B Tt_state
.BR \s-1TT_SENT\s+1 .
If it has a
.B Tt_address
of
.BR \s-1TT_HANDLER\s+1
or a
.BR tt_message_status (\|)
of
.BR \s-1TT_WRN_START_MESSAGE\s+1 ,
then it fails the message;
otherwise, it rejects it.
In either case,
.BR tttk_message_abandon (\|)
gives
.I msg
a message status (see
.BR tt_message_status (3))
of
.BR \s-1TT_DESKTOP_ENOTSUP\s+1 .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
.BR tttk_message_abandon (\|)
function returns the status of the operation as one of the following
.B Tt_status
values:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.Lc TT_OK
The operation completed successfully.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOMP
.br
The
.BR ttsession (1)
process is not running and the ToolTalk service cannot restart it.
.Lc TT_ERR_NOTHANDLER
.br
This application is not the handler for this message.
.Lc TT_ERR_POINTER
.br
The pointer passed does not point to an object
of the correct type for this operation.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR tttk (5),
.BR tt_message_status (3),
.BR tttk_message_fail (3),
.BR tttk_message_reject (3).
