.TH Dt/Dt.h 5 "12 May 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
Dt/Dt.h \- miscellaneous desktop definitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
#include <Dt/Dt.h>
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Hd Dt/Dt.h
header contains miscellaneous public constant and function declaration
for the Cde library.
.P
The header defines several constants that can be used to determine
the version of the library used to compile an application
and the version of the library with which
an application is currently linked.
.P
The header defines the following constants
that represent the library compile-time version:
.VL 24
.Lc DtVERSION
An integer specifying the major version number
.Lc DtREVISION
An integer specifying the minor version number
.Lc DtUPDATE_LEVEL
An integer specifying the patch release level
.Lc DtVERSION_NUMBER
An integer combining the major, minor and patch release numbers.
It is derived from the following formula:
.Cs I
(10000\ *\ DtVERSION\ +\ 100\ *
 DtRevision\ +\ DtUPDATE_LEVEL)
.Ce
.Lc DtVERSION_STRING
A string containing a description of the version
and the version number
.LE
.P
The header defines the following constants
that represent the library run-time version:
.P
.yS
extern int DtVersion
extern char *DtVersionString
.yE
.P
.B DtVersion
is an integer equivalent to
.Cn DtVERSION_NUMBER
at the time the library was created.
.B DtVersionString
is a string equivalent to
.Cn DtVERSION_STRING
at the time the library was created.
.P
The header declares the following as functions:
.P
.yS
.ta \w'Boolean DtInitialize('u
Boolean DtInitialize(Display *\f2display\fP,
	Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2name\fP,
	char *\f2tool_class\fP)
.sp 0.5v
.ta \w'Boolean DtAppInitialize('u
Boolean DtAppInitialize(XtAppContext \f2app_context\fP,
	Display *\f2display\fP,
	Widget \f2widget\fP,
	char *\f2name\fP,
	char *\f2tool_class\fP)
.yE
