.TH dtcalendaraction 5 "29 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
dtcalendaraction \- Cde calendar and appointment management actions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
Dtcm
DtcmEdit \f2appointment\fP
DtcmInsert \f2appointment\fP
Open \f2appointment\fP
Insert \f2appointment\fP
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The Cde Calendar and Appointment Services support the following
calendar and appointment management actions:
.VL 6
.LI \f3Dtcm\fP
.br
Open a view of the user's default calendar.
.LI \f3DtcmEdit\fP\0\f2appointment\fP	
.br
Edit the appointment named by the pathname in the
.I appointment
argument.
.LI \f3DtcmInsert\fP\0\f2appointment\fP	
.br
Insert the appointment named by the pathname in the
.I appointment
argument into the user's default calendar.
.LI \f3Open\fP\0\f2appointment\fP	
.br
Edit the appointment named by the pathname in the
.I appointment
argument.
.LI \f3Insert\fP\0\f2appointment\fP	
.br
Insert the appointment named by the pathname in the
.I appointment
argument into the user's default calendar.
.LE
.P
These actions can be invoked from an application using the
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
function or invoked from a command line using the
.Cm dtaction 1
utility.
.P
All
.IR appointment s
are text files including calendar entries defined in
.cX calapptfmt .
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtaction 1,
.cde .Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.xo .Fn DtActionInvoke 3
.xo in the \*(Zd.
