.TH dtfilsys 5 "12 October 1994"
.BH "12 October 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtfilsys \- CDE file system - directory tree structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "File System" "Directory Structure"
.LP
The CDE file system is divided into three parts: the "root" system,
.CB /usr/dt;
the configuration directory,
.CB /etc/dt;
and the temporary directory,
.CB /var/dt.
.PP
.CB /usr/dt
is a read-only directory. It contains all the files
that comprise the Desktop environment.
.PP
.CB /etc/dt
is the configuration directory. This is the directory
CDE applications will search to locate configuration files that have
been modified by the system administrator. Default versions of these
configuration files are typically located in
.CB /usr/dt.
.PP
.CB /var/dt
is the directory that will contain information that is
temporary or that varies in size and existence.
.PP
Below is a diagram of the directory tree structure for CDE.
.PP
.in +5
.SM /etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>
.in +17
.br
.SM /help/<Lang>
.br
.SM /icons/<Lang>
.br
.SM /types/<Lang>
.br
.in -10
.SM /backdrops/<Lang>
.br
.SM /config
.br
.SM /palettes/<Lang>
.PP
.in +5
.SM /usr/dt/app-defaults/<Lang>
.in +7
.br
.SM /appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>
.in +10
.br
.SM /help/<Lang>
.br
.SM /icons/<Lang>
.br
.SM /types/<Lang>
.br
.in -10
.SM /bin
.br
.SM /config
.br
.SM /lib
.br
.SM /share/backdrops/<Lang>
.in +6
.br
.SM /include
.br
.SM /examples
.br
.SM /man
.br
.SM /palettes/<Lang>
.PP
.in +5
.SM /var/dt/appconfig/appmanager
.PP
.in +5
.SM $HOME/.dt/appmanager
.in +9
.br
.SM /help
.br
.SM /icons
.br
.SM /palettes
.br
.SM /sessions
.br
.SM /types
.PP
The following guidelines apply to the contents of these directories:
.PP
.B /usr/dt
.in +5
This directory is for use by the CDE system. Applications should never
create files in this directory although they may read and execute
them.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/app-defaults/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the
app-defaults files for the CDE clients.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the actions
files used by the Application Manager.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/help/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the CDE help
volumes and help files.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/icons/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the icons
used by the CDE clients.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/types/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the actions
and data types used by the CDE clients.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/bin
.in +5
This directory contains the CDE clients.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/config
.in +5
This directory contains default configuration files.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/lib
.in +5
This directory contains the shared libraries used by the CDE
clients.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/share
.in +5
This directory contains CDE elements, typically ASCII files, that are
independent of the architecture.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/share/backdrops/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the
backdrops used by the window manager workspaces and by the
Style Manager.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/share/examples
.in +5
This directory contains examples of CDE functionality.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/share/include
.in +5
This directory is part of the developmewnt environment and includes
header files associated with CDE.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/share/man
.in +5
This directory contains the man pages for the CDE clients.
.PP
.B /usr/dt/share/palettes/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains the localized versions of the palettes
used by the Style Manager to determine the color scheme.
.PP
.B /etc/dt
.in +5
This directory is specified as the CDE configuration
directory.
.PP
.B /etc/dt/appconfig
.in +5
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files
.PP
.B /etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for the Application Manager.
.PP
.B /etc/dt/appconfig/help/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for the Help system.
.PP
.B /etc/dt/appconfig/icons/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for icons.
.PP
.B /etc/dt/appconfig/types/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for the action and filetype database.
.PP
.B /etc/dt/backdrops/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains backdrops provided by the system administrator.
.PP
.B /etc/dt/config
.in +5
This directory is to contain modified versions of the CDE
configuration files (installed in /usr/dt/config).
.PP
.B /etc/dt/palettes/<Lang>
.in +5
This directory contains palettes provided by the system administrator.
.PP
.B /var/dt
.in +5
This directory is used by CDE for some log files, temporary files,
and files that vary in size.
.PP
.B /var/dt/appconfig/appmanager
.in +5
This directory is created at login and is used by the
Application Manager.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt
.in +5
This directory contains information specific to the user.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/appmanager
.in +5
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for the Application Manager.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/backdrops
.in +5
This directory is used to hold user-customized backdrops for
the Style Manager.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/help
.in +5
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for the Help system.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/icons
.in +5
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for icons.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/palettes
.in +5
This directory is used to hold user-customized palettes for
the Style Manager.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/sessions
.in +5
This directory is used to store session information between CDE 
sessions.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/tmp
.in +5
This directory is used to hold temporary information.
.PP
.B $HOME/.dt/types
.in +5
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for the action and filetypes database.
.PP
.in -2
.B "The Minimum Runtime Environment"
.PP
The minimum environment required for a system to support CDE consists
of the following files and directories:
.PP
.in +5
.SM /usr/dt/app-defaults/C/
.in +15
.br
.SM Dtpad
.br
.SM Dtksh
.br
.SM Dtterm
.PP
.in +5
.SM /usr/dt/appconfig/tttypes/
.in +15
.SM types.xdr
.PP
.in +5
.SM /usr/dt/bin/
.br
.in +15
.SM dsdm
.br
.SM dtaction
.br
.SM dtappgather
.br
.SM dtappintegrate
.br
.SM dtexec
.br
.SM dtksh
.br
.SM dtpad
.br
.SM dtspcd
.br
.SM dtterm
.br
.SM suid_exec
.br
.SM rpc.ttdbserver
.br
.SM tt_type_comp
.br
.SM ttsession
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtenvvar (5)


