.TH dtfilsys 5 "12 October 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtfilsys \- CDE file system; directory tree structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "File System" "Directory Structure"
The CDE file system is divided into three parts: the root system,
.BR /usr/dt ,
the configuration directory,
.BR /etc/dt ,
and the temporary directory,
.B /var/dt.
.sp 1
The root system,
.BR /usr/dt ,
is a read-only directory.
It contains all the files
that comprise the CDE.
.sp 1
The configuration directory,
.BR /etc/dt ,
is the directory
CDE applications will search to locate configuration files that have
been modified by the system administrator.
Default versions of these
configuration files are typically located in
.BR /usr/dt .
.sp 1
The temporary directory,
.BR /var/dt ,
contains temporary information or information that varies
in size and existence.
.sp 1
Below is a diagram of the directory tree structure for CDE.
.Cs I
  /etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>
		   /help/<Lang>
		   /icons/<Lang>
		   /types/<Lang>
	 /backdrops/<Lang>
	 /config
	 /palettes/<Lang>

  /usr/dt/app-defaults/<Lang>
	 /appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>
		   /help/<Lang>
		   /icons/<Lang>
		   /types/<Lang>
	 /bin
	 /config
	 /lib
	/share/backdrops/<Lang>
	      /include
	      /examples
	      /man
	      /palettes/<Lang>
 /var/dt/appconfig/appmanager

 $HOME/.dt/appmanager
	  /help
	  /icons
	  /palettes
	  /sessions
	  /types
.Ce
.sp 1
The following guidelines apply to the contents of these directories:
.VL 15
.LI \f3/usr/dt\f1
This directory is for use by the CDE system.
Applications should never
create files in this directory although they may read and execute
them.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/app-defaults/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the
app-defaults files for the CDE clients.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the actions
files used by the Application Manager.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/appconfig/help/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the CDE help
volumes and help files.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the icons
used by the CDE clients.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/appconfig/types/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the actions
and data types used by the CDE clients.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/bin\f1
This directory contains the CDE clients.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/config\f1
This directory contains default configuration files.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/lib\f1
This directory contains the shared libraries used by the CDE
clients.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/share\f1
This directory contains CDE elements, typically ASCII files, that are
independent of the architecture.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/share/backdrops/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the
backdrops used by the window manager workspaces and by the
Style Manager.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/share/examples\f1
This directory contains examples of CDE functionality.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/share/include\f1
This directory is part of the developmewnt environment and includes
header files associated with CDE.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/share/man\f1
This directory contains the man pages for the CDE clients.
.LI \f3/usr/dt/share/palettes/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains the localized versions of the palettes
used by the Style Manager to determine the color scheme.
.LI \f3/etc/dt\f1
This directory is specified as the CDE configuration
directory.
.LI \f3/etc/dt/appconfig\f1
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files
.LI \f3/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/<Lang>\f1
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for the Application Manager.
.LI \f3/etc/dt/appconfig/help/<Lang>\f1
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for the Help system.
.LI \f3/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/<Lang>\f1
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for icons.
.LI \f3/etc/dt/appconfig/types/<Lang>\f1
This directory is used to hold system-administrator defined
configuration files for the action and filetype database.
.LI \f3/etc/dt/backdrops/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains backdrops provided by the system administrator.
.LI \f3/etc/dt/config\f1
This directory is to contain modified versions of the CDE
configuration files (installed in
.BR /usr/dt/config ).
.LI \f3/etc/dt/palettes/<Lang>\f1
This directory contains palettes provided by the system administrator.
.LI \f3/var/dt\f1
This directory is used by CDE for some log files, temporary files,
and files that vary in size.
.LI \f3/var/dt/appconfig/appmanager\f1
This directory is created at login and is used by the
Application Manager.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt\f1
This directory contains information specific to the user.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager\f1
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for the Application Manager.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/backdrops\f1
This directory is used to hold user-customized backdrops for
the Style Manager.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/help\f1
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for the Help system.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/icons\f1
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for icons.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/palettes\f1
This directory is used to hold user-customized palettes for
the Style Manager.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/sessions\f1
This directory is used to store session information between CDE 
sessions.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/tmp\f1
This directory is used to hold temporary information.
.LI \f3$HOME/.dt/types\f1
This directory is used to hold user-defined
configuration files for the action and filetypes database.
.HU "The Minimum Runtime Environment"
The minimum environment required for a system to support CDE consists
of the following files and directories:
.br
\f3 /usr/dt/app-defaults/C/
.br
tpad
.br
Dtksh
.br
Dtterm
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/tttypes/
.br
types.xdr
.br
/usr/dt/bin/
.br
dsdm
.br
dtaction
.br
dtappgather
.br
dtappintegrate
.br
dtexec
.br
dtksh
.br
dtpad
.br
dtspcd
.br
dtterm
.br
suid_exec
.br
rpc.ttdbserver
.br
tt_type_comp
.br
ttsession\f1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtenvvar (5)

