.TH dtfileactions 5 "31 March 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
dtfileactions \- Cde File Manager actions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
OpenApplicationManager
OpenApplicationView
OpenDir \f2directory\fP
OpenHomeDir
OpenTrash
TrashFile \f2file\fP
.yE
.P
.I
Note:
The component owner has not confirmed that all of
these actions will be submitted as part of the Cde specification.
As with the rest of this draft,
this section is offered only for discussion of format.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The Cde File Management Services support the following
actions for viewing directories:
.VL 15
.LI \f3OpenApplicationManager\fP
.br
Opens a window to display the contents of the Application Manager.
.LI \f3OpenApplicationView\fP
.br
Opens an application view window for a specified directory.
.LI \f3OpenDir\fP
Open a folder view of the directory named by the pathname in the
.I directory
argument.
.LI \f3OpenHomeDir\fP
Open a folder view of the user's home directory.
.LI \f3OpenTrash\fP
Opens a window to display the contents of the Trash Container.
.LI \f3TrashFile\fP
Moves the file named by the pathname in the
.I file
argument to the Trash Container.
.LE
.P
These actions can be invoked from an application using the
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
function or invoked from a command line using the
.Cm dtaction 1
utility.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtaction 1,
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.xos
.SH "CHANGE HISTORY"
First released in Issue 1.
.mE
.xoe
