.TH dtfileaction 5 "24 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH "NAME"
dtfileaction \- Cde file management actions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.yS
Dtfile [\f2directory\fP]
DtfileHome
Open \f2directory\fP
Open \f2file\fP
Print \f2directory\fP
Print \f2file\fP
.yE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The Cde File Management Services support the following
file management actions:
.VL 6
.LI \f3Dtfile\fP
.br
Prompt the user for the pathname of a directory
and open a folder view of the directory specified by the user.
.LI \f3Dtfile\fP\0\f2directory\fP	
.br
Open a folder view of the directory named by the pathname in the
.I directory
argument.
.LI \f3DtfileHome\fP
.br
Open a folder view of the user's home directory.
.LI \f3Open\fP\0\f2directory\fP	
.br
Open a folder view of the directory named by the pathname in the
.I directory
argument.
.LI \f3Open\fP\0\f2file\fP	
.br
Open the file named by the pathname in the
.I file
argument.
(The nature of the Open action is dependent on
the type of file.)
.br
.LI \f3Print\fP\0\f2directory\fP	
.br
Print a listing of the directory named by the pathname in the
.I directory
argument.
.LI \f3Print\fP\0\f2file\fP	
.br
Print the file named by the pathname in the
.I file
argument.
(The nature of the Print action is dependent on
the type of file.)
.LE
.P
These actions can be invoked from an application using the
.Fn DtActionInvoke 3
function or invoked from a command line using the
.Cm dtaction 1
utility.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtaction 1,
.cde .Fn DtActionInvoke 3.
.xo .Fn DtActionInvoke 3
.xo in the \*(Zd.
