.cdes
.TH DtStdAppFontNames 5 "22 Jun 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
DtStdAppFontNames \- Cde Standard Application Font Names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.cdee
.xR3 DtStdAppFontNames
The Cde Standard Application Font Names are a set of generic X Window
System font names, usable by applications as their default
fonts, for the most common categories of type designs and styles.
These names, for at least six sizes of 13 typefaces,
must be provided on all Cde
.xo systems.
.cde systems, and they should be provided in any
.cde X\ server product on which Cde applications are expected to run.
They are typically mapped to existing fonts on the system
using the font alias mechanism, although this method is not required.
.cdes
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cde 1.0 does not come with a common set of fonts on all vendors'
systems, and both Cde itself and Cde applications must be able to run
on X\ servers and X terminals from non-Cde vendors if those vendors so
desire.
Therefore, there are a standard set of ``generic'' font names
and sizes that each Cde vendor makes available on their Cde systems and
that X\ server vendors may make available on their X\ servers and
terminals.
The names map to existing fonts on each vendor's system,
which may vary from vendor to vendor.
.cdee
.P
The Cde Standard Application Font Names described here allow
applications to use a single set of default font specifications in their
.I app-defaults
files, without concern for the system
.cde or X\ server
on which Cde is running.
These
.I app-defaults
application defaults are given as XLFD font name patterns that will
match the standard Cde font names on all Cde systems.
.cdes
This allows
application developers both to reduce their concern with selecting
their default fonts from a varying set of fonts on different Cde
systems and to make use of the system default fonts.
.cdee
.cde .HU "Background"
.xo .H 4 "Background"
Application fonts are the fonts used within an application, where a
wide variety of text designs, styles, weights and point sizes are useful.
These variations are used for emphasis, cross-references,
section headers, and so forth.
.cdes
There are thousands of fonts available in the
market for use in applications, and different Cde systems will have
different fonts.
.cdee
The standard names attempt to provide the minimum
variety in generic designs, styles and sizes that an application might
want to use as defaults.
(The Cde Standard Interface Font Names, described in
.xo .cX DtStdInterfaceFontNames ,
.cde .BR DtStdInterfaceFontNames (5),
provide a similar mechanism for the elements of the Cde desktop itself.)
.cdes
.P
Common application font names prevent applications
from needing different
.I app-defaults
files on each Cde system.
The Standard Application Font Names
allow applications to use a single
.I app-defaults
file across all Cde systems.
.cdes
In addition, any X\ server or X
terminal vendor may ensure that Cde applications can run on their
X\ server by mapping these standard application names to fonts of the
corresponding style on their individual X systems.
.cdee
.cde .HU "Rationale"
.xo .H 4 "Rationale"
Two of the most common design variations in fonts used to display text
are the presence or absence of serifs and the choice between
proportional or regularly spaced (mono-spaced) characters.
Combining these two design variations yields four ``generic'' font
designs, or families:
.VL 2
.LI \(bu
serif proportionally-spaced
.LI \(bu
sans serif proportionally-spaced
.LI \(bu
serif mono-spaced
.LI \(bu
sans serif mono-spaced
.LE
.P
Common examples of these four designs are:
.VL 2
.LI \(bu
Times Roman
.LI \(bu
Helvetica
.LI \(bu
Courier
.LI \(bu
Lucida Sans Typewriter
.LE
.P
Each of these designs typically come, for text fonts,
in four styles (combinations of weight and slant):
.VL 2
.LI \(bu
plain
.LI \(bu
bold
.LI \(bu
italic
.LI \(bu
bold-italic
.LE
.P
The four styles of each of the four design variations yield 16 generic
font variations.
These 16 generic fonts are among the most commonly
used in general desktop computing.
.cdes
For example, taking the first three
real examples above (Times Roman, Helvetica, Courier), these 12 fonts,
along with the Symbol font, constitute the so-called ``Adobe 13'' that
is a de facto minimum set of fonts in the PostScript community in the
desktop computer marketplace.
.cdee
.P
In some cases, applications do not care about the exact font family or
name to be used, but do need to use a mono-spaced font, a sans serif
font or a serif font.
This Cde mechanism allows such applications to
be freed from the need to be concerned about the exact font names that
may or may not be present on a particular Cde system.
.cde .HU "The Standard Names for the Latin-1 Character Set"
.xo .H 4 "The Standard Names for the Latin-1 Character Set"
The 13 standard application font names are provided on all Cde systems
only for the
.xo \*(Z7
.cde ISO 8859
(Latin-1) character set.
These represent 12
generic design and style variations (serif and sans serif
proportionally-spaced, and a mono-spaced font that is either serif or
sans serif), as well as a symbol font.
These standard names are
provided in addition to the ``real'' names of the fonts that the
standard names are mapped to for a particular Cde system.
.cdes
An additional four standard font names, to allow both serif and sans serif
designs in a mono-spaced font, may also be provided by a Cde system.
.cdee
.cde .HU "XLFD Field Values for the Standard Application Font Names"
.xo .H 4 "XLFD Field Values for the Standard Application Font Names"
The standard names are available using the X Window System XLFD font
naming scheme.
There are three aspects to the standard names:
.xo .BL
.cde .VL 2
.LI \(bu
The
.I "underlying font"
on each system,
.cde or X\ server platform,
to which a standard name is mapped,
typically will be different on each system.
.LI \(bu
The
.I "standard name"
itself, a full XLFD name mapped to the underlying font,
may be different on each system in some of the XLFD fields.
However, most of the fields are the same from system to system,
allowing the
.I patterns
(described next) to be the same.
.LI \(bu
The font resource
.I "pattern"
containing the * wildcards, used in
.I app-defaults
files,
which will match the full XLFD name of the standard name,
is the same across all systems, for a given use in an
.I app-defaults
file.
.LE
.P
.xo Systems
.cde Each Cde or X\ server vendor implementing this specification
must provide full XLFD names for the standard names, mapped to
system-dependent underlying fonts,
so that the XLFD patterns used in Cde application
.I app-defaults
files will always match one of the full XLFD names provided.
.P
The Standard Application Font Names are identified by the presence of
the following XLFD field name values:
.xo .BL
.cde .VL 2
.LI \(bu
.Cn FOUNDRY
is
.B dt
.LI \(bu
.Cn FAMILY_NAME
is
.B application
.LI \(bu
.Cn WEIGHT_NAME
is
.B medium
or
.B bold
.LI \(bu
.Cn SLANT
is
.B r
or
.B i
.LI \(bu
.Cn SETWIDTH
is
.B normal
.LI \(bu
.Cn ADD_STYLE
is
.B sans
for sans serif,
.B serif
for serif
.LI \(bu
.Cn SPACING
is
.B p
or
.B m
.LI \(bu
.Cn CHARSET_REGISTRY
is
.B iso8859
.LI \(bu
.Cn CHARSET_ENCODING
is
.B 1
.LE
.P
Although
.B sans
and
.B serif
are not required by the XLFD font
convention, they are always part of the standard Cde font names.
.cde .HU "Point Sizes"
.xo .H 4 "Point Sizes"
The complete set of point sizes available for each of the standard
application font names is determined by the set of fonts included in a
system, whether bitmapped only or both bitmapped and scalable outline.
The minimum set of sizes required and available on
all Cde systems corresponds to the standard sizes of bitmapped fonts
that make up the default mapping for X11R5:
8, 10, 12, 14, 18 and 24.
.P
For example, the entire set of six sizes of the plain monospaced font, on
any Cde system, is represented by:
.Cs I
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-80-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-100-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-120-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-140-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-180-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-240-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
.Ce
.P
These patterns will match the corresponding standard font name on any
Cde system, even though the
.Cn PIXEL_SIZE
and
.Cn AVERAGE_WIDTH
numeric
fields may be different on various systems, and the matched fonts may
be either serif or sans serif, depending on the implementation
of the set of standard names.
The
.Cn RESOLUTION
fields in the XLFD names of the underlying fonts, when
those fonts are bitmapped fonts, must match the resolution
of the monitor on which the fonts are displayed for the
point sizes to be accurate.
To provide expected point size
behavior for applications, systems should ensure that the
.Cn RESOLUTION_X
and
.Cn RESOLUTION_Y
fields of the underlying
fonts vary no more than 20% from the real monitor
resolution of the displays on which the fonts will be used.
.P
Applications requesting point sizes different from the six in the minimum
set may obtain either ``scaled bitmapped'' fonts of the requested
design, or scaled outline versions of the requested design.
This behavior requires that the X server in question
support the scaling of fonts and that the standard names
are mapped to underlying fonts that can be scaled using
this support.
.br
.cde .HU "Example XLFD Patterns for the Standard Names"
.xo .H 4 "Example XLFD Patterns for the Standard Names"
Using the specified field values for these standard names,
subsets of the standard names can be represented with various XLFD patterns.
The XLFD pattern
.Cs I
-dt-application-*
.Ce
.P
logically matches the full set of \*(Zx Standard Application Font Names.
(Note that no specific X server behavior is implied).
The pattern
.Cs I
-dt-application-bold-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-p-*-*-*-
.Ce
.P
matches the bold, proportionally-spaced Cde fonts, both serif and sans
serif.
And the pattern
.Cs I
-dt-application-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-*-*-
.Ce
.P
matches the monospaced fonts (including both serif and sans serif).
.P
The full set of Cde Standard Application Font Names can be represented
with the following patterns:
.Cs I
-dt-application-bold-i-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-r-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-i-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-i-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-r-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-i-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-i-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-i-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-p-*-dtsymbol-1
.Ce
.P
Each of these 13 standard names comes in at least six point sizes.
.cde .HU "Implementation of Font Names"
.xo .H 4 "Implementation of Font Names"
.cdes
Each Cde system vendor and X\ server vendor
provides mappings of
their own fonts to XLFD names meeting this standard, so that Cde
applications will work on their system.
The actual XLFD names will
vary from system to system, just as the fonts they are mapped to,
since they contain some of the same values as the XLFD name of the
underlying font.
What does not vary is the behavior:
the common
patterns in which only specified fields are used will match each
system's standard names.
This is guaranteed by the field specifications given earlier.
.P
.cdee
The following requirements are placed on
.xo the
.cde each Cde or X\ server vendor's
implementation of the Standard Application Font Names:
.xo .BL
.cde .VL 2
.LI \(bu
The names must be fully specified XLFD names, without wild cards.
.LI \(bu
The
.Cn WEIGHT_NAME ,
.Cn SLANT ,
.Cn SETWIDTH_NAME ,
.Cn SPACING ,
.Cn CHARSET_REGISTRY
and
.Cn CHARSET_ENCODING
fields must contain valid values as defined previously
and must match those in the underlying font.
.LI \(bu
The
.Cn ADD_STYLE_NAME
field must contain either the
.B serif
or
.B sans
designation, whichever matches the underlying font.
.LE
.cde .HU "Default Cde Mappings for Latin-1 Locales"
.xo .H 4 "Default Cde Mappings for Latin-1 Locales"
The default mapping of these standard application font names for the
.xo \*(Z7
.cde ISO 8859
locales is to the following standard X11R5 bitmapped fonts
(the six minimum sizes are not shown explicitly in these patterns):
.Cs I
-adobe-times-bold-i-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-times-bold-r-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-times-medium-i-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-times-medium-r-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-helvetica-bold-o-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-helvetica-bold-r-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-helvetica-medium-o-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-helvetica-medium-r-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-courier-bold-o-normal--*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-courier-bold-r-normal--*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-courier-medium-o-normal--*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-courier-medium-r-normal--*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-adobe-symbol-medium-r-normal--*-*-*-*-p-*-adobe-fontspecific
.Ce
.P
A system may provide a different
mapping of these standard names as long as all 13 names map to fonts of
the appropriate design and style and the required six point sizes are
available.
The system documentation must document the
system-specific default mapping for the standard names.
.cde .HU "Font Names in app-defaults Files"
.xo .H 4 "Font Names in app-defaults Files"
An application can use a single
.I app-defaults
file to specify font resources and use it across all Cde systems.
Since most of the fields (\c
.Cn FOUNDRY ,
.Cn FAMILY_NAME ,
.Cn WEIGHT_NAME ,
.Cn SLANT ,
.Cn SETWIDTH_NAME ,
.Cn ADD_STYLE_NAME ,
.Cn POINT_SIZE ,
.Cn SPACING ,
.Cn CHARSET_\%REGISTRY
and
.Cn CHARSET_\%ENCODING )
of the standard names are the same across different systems,
these values can be used in the resource specification in the
.I app-defaults
file.
However, other fields (\c
.Cn PIXEL_SIZE ,
.Cn RESOLUTION_X ,
.Cn RESOLUTION_Y
and
.Cn AVERAGE_WIDTH )
may vary across
systems, and so must be wild-carded in the resource specification.
For example:
.Cs I
.S -1
appOne*headFont: -dt-application-bold-r-normal-sans-*-140-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
appOne*linkFont: -dt-application-bold-i-normal-sans-*-100-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
.S +1
.Ce
.P
might be used to specify some of AppOne's default font resource needs.
.cde .HU "Other Character Sets in the Common Locales"
.xo .H 4 "Other Character Sets in the Common Locales"
The standard application font names defined above are for use in
locales using the
.xo \*(Z7
.cde ISO 8859
character set only.
For other locales
supported by Cde, there are no fonts guaranteed to be included.
However, for the following
locales, it is recommended that systems provide fonts with
the following XLFD attribute values, and that they be accessible using
these names.
.cdes
For full information on how vendors, if they ship the
recommended fonts, would make such names usable with the appropriate
font base name lists required for correct Cde support for
internationalization, see the guidelines in the
.I "Cde Internationalization Programming Guide"
document.
.cdee
.VL 6
.LI "Locales using ISO 8859-2, -3, -4, -5 (Cyrillic), -7 (Greek):"
.br
The same values for
.Cn FOUNDRY ,
.Cn FAMILY_NAME ,
.Cn WEIGHT_NAME ,
.Cn SLANT ,
.Cn SET_WIDTH ,
.Cn ADD_STYLE
and
.Cn SPACING
as are used in this definition for
the
.xo \*(Z7
.cde ISO 8859
locale are recommended.
.LI "Japanese locales:"
.br
Two values for the
.Cn FAMILY_NAME
attribute (\c
.B Gothic
and
.BR Mincho )
and two values for the
.Cn WEIGHT
attribute (\c
.B medium
and
.BR bold )
are recommended.
.LI "Chinese (Taiwan) locales:"
.br
Two values for the
.Cn FAMILY_NAME
attribute (\c
.B Sung
and
.BR Kai )
and
two values for the
.Cn WEIGHT
attribute (\c
.B medium
and
.BR bold )
are
recommended.
.LI "Chinese (PRC) locales:"
.br
Two values for the
.Cn FAMILY_NAME
attribute (\c
.B Song
and
.BR Kai )
and
two values for the
.Cn WEIGHT
attribute (\c
.B medium
and
.BR bold )
are
recommended.
.LI "Korean locales:"
.br
Two values for the
.Cn FAMILY_NAME
attribute (\c
.B Totum
and
.BR Pathang )
and two values for the
.Cn WEIGHT
attribute (\c
.B medium
and
.BR bold )
are recommended.
Note that these names are unofficial,
tentative romanizations of the two common font families in use in Korea;
Totum corresponds to fonts typically shipped as Gothic, Kodig
or Dotum and Pathang corresponds to fonts typically shipped as Myungjo
or Myeongjo.
The official roman names for these fonts are under review
and may be changed in the future by the Korean government, and thus may
change for Cde.
.LE
.cdes
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtstyle (1),
.BR dtterm (1),
.BR DtStdInterfaceFontNames (5)
.SH NOTES
There is no requirement on a Cde system to implement these
standard names in a particular way.
Several mechanisms are possible:
duplicate font files with altered naming attributes, X11R5 font
aliases, or vendor-specific mechanisms.
The only requirement is that
an XLFD pattern, written with attributes taken from the set that define
the standard names, can be successfully used to open a font with the
Xlib function
.BR XLoadFont ;
and, specifically, the Xlib function
.BR XListFonts
need NOT return the same XLFD names for the pattern on
different Cde systems.
.P
Cde applications should, of course, be written to behave in a
reasonable manner if these standard font names are not available on a
particular X server.
This is typically done in an X application by
defaulting to the
.B fixed
and
.B variable
fonts.
.cdee
