.TH dtterm 5 "25 Apr 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtTerm \- escape sequences recognized by dtterm and the DtTerm widget
.iX "dtterm"
.iX "DtTerm"
.iX "escape sequences" "dtterm"
.iX "escape sequences" "DtTerm"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.HU "Received Escape Sequences"
The
.xos
workspace manager
.xoe
.cdes
Cde workspace manager,
.Cm dtterm 1,
.cdee
and the \f3 DtTerm\fP widget support the following list of
received escape sequences.
Spaces have been added for readability and are not part of the escape sequence.
The following indicate arguments: ``\f2pi\fP'', ``\f2p1\fP'', and
``\f2keyword\fP''.
``\f2Space\fP'' indicates a required space, ASCII code 0x20
``\f2Ctrl-G\fP'' indicates a control code (in this case ASCII 0x07).
``\f2Esc\fP'' indicates ASCII code 0x1b.
``\f2BackSlash\fP'' indicates ASCII code 0x5c.
Literals are indicated as ``\f3literal\fP'' and must be included exactly
as specified.
.VL 15
.LI \f2Ctrl-G\fP
(\f3Ctrl-G\fP) Bell.
The terminal either issues an audible bell,
or flashes the text window depending on the state of the visual bell
flag.
.LI \f2Ctrl-H\fP
(\f3Ctrl-H\fP) Backspace.
The cursor moves one cursor position to the left.
If reverse-wrap mode is disabled and the cursor is at the left-most column
of the line when a backspace character is received, the cursor remains
at its current position.
If reverse-wrap mode is enabled and the cursor is at the left-most column
of the line when a backspace character is received, the cursor
moves to the right-most column of the previous line.  If the cursor is also
in the top-most row, the cursor moves to the right-most column of
the bottom-most row.
.LI \f2Ctrl-I\fP
(\f HT\fP) (\f3 Ctrl-I\fP) Horizontal Tab.
The cursor moves right to the next tab stop.
If there are no further tab stops set to the right of the cursor, the cursor 
moves to the right-most column of the current line.
.LI \f2Ctrl-J\fP
(\f3NL\fP) (\f3 Ctrl-J\fP) Line Feed or New Line.
The cursor moves
to the same column of the next line.
If the cursor is in the bottom-most line of the scrolling region, 
the scrolling region scrolls up one line.
Lines scrolled off the top of the scrolling region are lost.
Blank lines with no visible character attributes
are added at the bottom of the scrolling region.
.LI \f2Ctrl-K\fP
(\f3VT\fP) Vertical Tab.
Same as Line Feed.
.LI \f2Ctrl-L\fP
(\f3FF\fP) Form Feed or New Page.
Same as Line Feed.
.LI Ctrl-M
(\f3Ctrl-M\fP) Carriage Return.
The cursor moves to the left-most column of the current line.
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 .I Ctrl-N
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3 Ctrl-N\fP) Shift Out
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 .I Ctrl-O
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3 Ctrl-O\fP) Shift In
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3#8\fP
(\f3DECALN\fP) DEC Screen Align Test.
The screen is filled with the character `E'.
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2Esc \f3 ( C
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3ISO2022\fP) Designate G0 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2Esc \f3 ) C
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3ISO2022\fP) Designate G1 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 * C
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3ISO2022\fP) Designate G2 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 + C
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3ISO2022\fP) Designate G3 character set
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f37\fP
(\f3DECSC\fP) Save cursor
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f38\fP
(\f3DECRC\fP) Restore cursor
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3=\fP
(\f3DECPAM\fP) Application keypad
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3>\fP
(\f3DECPNM\fP) Normal keypad
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3D\fP
(\f3IND\fP) Index
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3E\fP
(\f3NEL\fP) Next line
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3H\fP
(\f3HTS\fP) Tab set
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3M\fP
(\f3RI\fP) Reverse index
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 N
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3SS2\fP) Single shift select of G2 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 O
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3SS3\fP) Single shift select of G3 character set
.LI "\f2Esc\fP\f3 P\fP\f2 p1\fP\f3 ;\fP\f2 p2\fP\f3 |\fP\f2 p3 Esc BackSlash\fP"
(\f3DECUDK\fP) User defined keys
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3Z\fP
(\f3DECID\fP) Return terminal ID
.LI \f2Esc\fP\f3c\fP
(\f3RIS\fP) Full reset
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 n
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3LS2\fP) Select the G2 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 o
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3LS3\fP) Select the G3 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 |
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3LS3R\fP) Invoke the G3 character set
.\" Dtterm1.1 .LI 
.\" Dtterm1.1 \f2 Esc \f3 }
.\" Dtterm1.1 (\f3LS2R\fP) Invoke the G2 character set
.LI "\f2Esc\fP\f3 [\fP\f2 pi\fP\f3 " q\fP"
(\f3DECSCA\fP) Select character protection attribute.
The default value is 0.
This escape sequence defines the characters that come after it as
erasable or not erasable from the screen.
The selective erase escape sequences, (\f3DECSED\fP and \f3 DECSEL\fP), can only 
erase characters defined as erasable.
Valid supported values of \f2pi\fP are:
.P
\f3 0\fP	\f3DECSED\fP and \f3DECSEL\fP can erase characters.
\f3 1\fP	\f3DECSED\fP and \f3DECSEL\fP cannot erase characters.
\f3 2\fP	Same as \f3 0\fP.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 @\fP"
(\f3ICH\fP) Insert \f2 pi\fP blank characters.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value inserts a single blank character.
An N argument value inserts N blank characters.
Blank characters with normal character attributes are inserted at the
cursor position.
Characters to the right of the cursor move to the right.
Characters scrolled past the end of the line are lost.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 A\fP"
(\f3CUU\fP) Cursor up \f2 pi\fP lines.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value moves the cursor up 1 line.
An N argument value moves the cursor up N lines.
The cursor stops at the top margin.
If the cursor is already above the top margin, the cursor stops at the top line.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 B\fP"
(\f3CUD\fP) Cursor down \f2 pi\fP lines.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value moves the cursor down 1 line.
An N argument value moves the cursor down N lines.
The cursor stops at the bottom margin.
If the cursor is already below the bottom margin,
the cursor stops at the bottom line.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 C\fP"
(\f3CUF\fP) Cursor forward \f2 pi\fP characters.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value moves the cursor forward 1 character.
An N argument value moves the cursor forward N characters.
The cursor stops at the right-most column of the line.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 D\fP"
(\f3CUB\fP) Cursor backward \f2 pi\fP characters.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value1 moves the cursor forward 1 character.
An N argument value moves the cursor forward N characters.
The cursor stops at the left-most column of the line.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 F\fP"
(\f3CPL\fP) Cursor to the first column of the \f2 pi\fPth preceding line.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value moves the cursor to the preceding line.
An N argument value moves the cursor forward Nth preceding line.
If the cursor is below the top margin, the cursor stops at the top margin.
if the cursor is already above the top margin, the cursor stops at the top line.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 G\fP"
(\f3CHA\fP) Cursor to column \f2 pi\fP.
The default value is 1.
A argument value of 0 or 1 moves the cursor to the first column of the
current line.
A argument value of N moves the cursor to the Nth column of the current line.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 p1 \fP\f3 ; \fP\f2 p2 \fP\f3 H\fP"
(\f3CUP\fP) Cursor position.
The default values are 1.
A \f2 p1\fP value of 0 or 1 moves the cursor to row 1.
A \f2 p1\fP value of N moves the cursor to row N.
A \f2 p2\fP value of 0 or 1 moves the cursor to column 1.
A \f2 p2\fP value of N moves the cursor to column N.
The starting point for lines and columns depends on the setting of the origin
mode (\f3 DECOM\fP).
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi \fP\f3 J\fP"
(\f3ED\fP) Erase in display.
The default value is 0.
A 0 argument value erases from the cursor through the end of the display.
A 1 argument value erases from the beginning of the display through the
cursor position.
A 2 argument value erases the complete display.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 K\fP"
(\f3EL\fP) Erase in line.
The default value is 0.
A 0 argument value erases from the cursor through the end of the line.
A 1 argument value erases from the beginning of the line through the cursor.
A 2 argument value erases the complete line.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 L\fP"
(\f3IL\fP) Insert lines.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value inserts one line at the cursor.
An N argument value inserts N lines at the cursor.
As lines are inserted, lines below the cursor and in the scrolling region
move down.
Lines scrolled off the page are lost.
There is no effect outside the scrolling region.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 M\fP"
(\f3DL\fP) Delete lines
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value deletes one line at the cursor.
An N argument value deletes N lines at the cursor.
As lines are deleted, lines below the cursor and in the scrolling region
move up.
Blank lines with no visible character attributes
are added at the bottom of the scrolling region.
There is no effect outside the scrolling region.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 P\fP"
(\f3DCH\fP) Delete characters.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value deletes one character at the cursor position.
An N argument value deletes N characters at the cursor position.
An argument greater than the number of characters between the cursor and
the right margin only deletes the remaining characters on the line.
As characters are deleted, the remaining characters move left and are
replaced by blank spaces with no visual character attributes.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 S\fP"
(\f3SU\fP) Scroll up \f2 pi\fP lines.
The default is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value scrolls the display up 1 line.
An N argument value scrolls the display up N lines.
The scrolling region scrolls up.
Lines scrolled off the top of the scrolling region are lost.
Blank lines with no visible character attributes
are added at the bottom of the scrolling region.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 T\fP"
(\f3SD\fP) Scroll down \f2 pi\fP lines.
The default is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value scrolls the display down 1 line.
An N argumentvalue scrolls the display down N lines.
The scrolling region scrolls down.
Lines scrolled off the bottom of the scrolling region are lost.
Blank lines with no visible character attributes
are added at the top of the scrolling region.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 X\fP"
(\f3ECH\fP) Erase \f2 pi\fP characters.
The default value is 1.
A 0 or 1 argument value erases a single character.
An N argument value erases N characters.
The character attributes from erased characters are cleared.
This escape sequences works inside or outside the scrolling margins.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 c\fP"
(\f3DA\fP) Send device attributes.
The default is 0.
A 0 or 1 argument value elicits a ``\f2Esc \fP\f3 [ ? 1 ; 2 c\fP'' response from
the terminal emulato.
This is the standard response for the \f3 DEC VT100\fP Terminal and xterm.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 ; \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 f\fP"
(\f3HVP\fP) Horizontal and vertical position.
This escape sequence has been replaced by \f3 CUP\fP and offers identical
functionality.
It is provided to maintain backward compatibility.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 g\fP"
(\f3TBC\fP) Tab clear.
The default is 0.
A 0 argument value clears the tab stop at the current cursor column.
A 3 argument value clears all tab stops.
.LI "\f2Esc \fP\f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 h\fP"
(\f3SM\fP) Set mode.
This escape sequences sets ANSI modes.
Valid supported values of \f2 pi\fP are:
.P
\f32\fP	(\f3KAM\fP) Keyboard lock.  DKS: we need text here.????????????
\f34\fP	(\f3IRM\fP) Insert mode.  In this mode, new characters move
	characters in display memory to the right.  Characters
	moved past the endof the line are lost.
.br
\f312\fP	(\f3SRM\fP) Send/receive mode.  DKS: we need text
	here.?????????????
.br
\f320\fP	(\f3LNM\fP) New line.  In this mode, the cursor moves to the
	first column on the next line when \f3dtterm\fP receives an \f3 LF\fP,
	\f3 FF\fP, or \f3 VT\fP character.  When the Return key is pressed, the
	emulator sends a carriage-return (\f3CR\fP) followed by a new-line
	(\f3NL\fP).
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 l\fP"
(\f3RM\fP) Reset mode.
This escape sequences resets ANSI modes.
Valid supported values of \f2pi\fP are:
.P
\f34\fP	(\f3IRM\fP) Replace mode.  In this mode, new characters replace
	the character at the cursor position.
.br
\f320\fP	(\f3LNM\fP) New line.  In this mode, the cursor moves to the same
	column on the next line when the emulator receives an \f3LF\fP,
	\f3FF\fP, or \f3 VT\fP character.  When the Return key is pressed,
	\f3dtterm\fP sends a carriage-return (\f3CR\fP).
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 ; ... m\fP"
(\f3SGR\fP) Character attributes.
The default is 0.
This escape sequence selects one or more character attributes.
Valid supported values for \f2 pi\fP are:
.P
\f30\fP	All attributes off
.br
\f31\fP	Bold
.br
\f34\fP	Underline
.br
\f35\fP	Blinking.  This attribute appears as bold text
.br
\f37\fP	Negative image
.br
\f38\fP	Invisible image
.br
\f322\fP	Bold off
.br
\f324\fP	Underline off
.br
\f325\fP	Blinking off
.br
\f327\fP	Negative image off
.br
\f328\fP	Invisible image off
.br
\f330\fP	Black display (text)
.br
\f331\fP	Red display (text)
.br
\f332\fP	Green display (text)
.br
\f333\fP	Yellow display (text)
.br
\f334\fP	Blue display (text)
.br
\f335\fP	Magenta display (text)
.br
\f336\fP	Cyan display (text)
.br
\f337\fP	White display (text)
.br
\f339\fP	Default display (text) color
.br
\f340\fP	Black background
.br
\f341\fP	Red background
.br
\f342\fP	Green background
.br
\f343\fP	Yellow background
.br
\f344\fP	Blue background
.br
\f345\fP	Magenta background
.br
\f346\fP	Cyan background
.br
\f347\fP	White background
.br
\f349\fP	Default background color
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 n\fP"
(\f3DSR\fP) Device status report.
Valid supported values for \f2 pi\fP are:
.P
Operating status.
.br
	\f3 dtterm\fP responds with an ``OK'' message of ``\f2Esc \fP\f3 [ 0 n\fP''.
.br
(\f3DSR\fP) Cursor position report.
.br
	\f3 dtterm\fP responds with the current cursor position in the form
	``\f2Esc p1 \fP\f3 ; \fP\f2 p2 \fP\f3 R\fP'' where \f2 p1\fP is the current cursor line and
	\f2p2\fP is the current cursor row.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP\f2 p1 \fP\f3 ;\fP \f2 p2 \fP\f3 r\fP"
(\f3DECSTBM\fP) Set top and bottom margins.
The default for \f2 p1\fP is 1.
The default for \f2 p2\fP is the current number of lines in the terminal window.
The top and bottom margins are set to \f2 p1\fP and \f2 p2\fP respectively.
Scrolling is not performed outside the margins.
.LI "\f2 Esc \f3 [ \f2 p1 \f3 [ \f2 p2 \f3 ; \fPIp3 \f3 ] t"
Valid values for \f2 p1\fP (and any additional arguments) are:
.P
\f31\fP	Restore (de-iconify) window.
.br
\f32\fP	Minimize (iconify) window.
.br
\f33 ;\fP \f2p2 \fP \f3;\fP \f2p3\fP	Move window to [\f2 p2\fP, \f2 p3\fP].
.br
\f34 ;\fP \f2p2 \fP \f3;\fP \f2p3\fP	Stretch terminal window to height \f2 p2\fP, width \f2 p3\fP
	in pixels.
.br
\f35\fP	Bring the terminal window to the front of the stacking order.
.br
\f36\fP	Bring the terminal window to the back of the stacking order.
.br
\f37\fP	Refresh the terminal window.
.br
\f38\fP ; \f2 p2 \fP\f3 ; \fP\f2 p3\fP	Stretch terminal window to rows \f2 p2\fP, columns \f2 p3\fP.
.br
\f311\fP	Report if the terminal window is open or iconic.  Returns
	<<what???>>.
.br
\f313\fP	Report the terminal window's position.  Returns
	<<what???>>.
.br
\f314\fP	Report the terminal window's size in pixels.  Returns
	<<what???>>.
.br
\f318\fP	Report the terminal window's size in characters.  Returns
	<<what???>>.
.br
\f320\fP	Report the terminal window's icon label.  Returns
	<<what???>>.
.br
\f321\fP	Report the terminal windows title.  Returns <<what???>>.
.br
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 x\fP"
Request terminal arguments. 
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP? \f2 pi \fP\f3 h\fP"
(\f3SM\fP) DEC private set mode.
This escape sequences sets DEC private modes.
Valid supported values of \f2 pi\fP are:
.P
\f31\fP	(\f3DECCKM\fP) Enable cursor keys mode.
When cursor keys
	mode is enabled, the arrow keys send application sequences to
	the host.
.br
\f33\fP	(\f3DECCOLM\fP) Enable 132-column mode.
When 132-column
	mode is enabled, the number of columns is the terminal win-
	dow changed to 132.
When entering into 132-column mode,
	the left, right, top, and bottom margins are reset to their
	default positions and the display is cleared.
.br
\f34\fP	(\f3DECSCLM\fP) Enable smooth scrolling.
When smooth scrol-
	ling is enabled, lines are added and the screen is scrolled a sin-
	gle line at a time.
.br
\f35\fP	(\f3DECSCNM\fP) Enable reverse video.
When reverse video
	mode is enabled, the foreground and background colors of the
	terminal window are reversed.
.br
\f36\fP	(\f3DECOM\fP) Enable origin mode.
When origin mode is
	enabled, the home cursor position is the upper-left corner of
	the screen, within the margins.
The starting point for line
	numbers depends on the current top margin.
The cursor can-
	not be moved outside the top and bottom margins.
.br
\f37\fP	(\f3DECAWM\fP) Enable autowrap.
When autowrap mode is
	enabled, characters received when the cursor is at the right-
	most column of the page are inserted at the beginning of the
	next line.
If the cursor is at the bottom line of the scrolling
	region, the page will be scrolled up 1 line.
.br
\f38\fP	(\f3DECARM\fP) Enable auto-repeat keys.
.br
\f340\fP	Enable \f3DECCOLM\fP escape sequence.
When the \f3 DECCOLM\fP
	escape sequence is enabled, the terminal emulator switches
	into either an 80- or 132-column window when it receives a
	\f3DECCOLM\fP escape sequence.
.br
\f344\fP	Enable margin bell.
When the margin bell is enabled, the ter-
	minal emulator's bell (either audible or visible) is invoked
	when the cursor is a pre-defined distance from the right mar-
	gin and a key is pressed.
.br
\f345\fP	Enable reverse-wraparound mode.
When reverse-autowrap
	mode is enabled, and a backspace is received when the cursor
	is at the left-most column of the page, the cursor is
	wrapped to the right-most column of the previous line.
If the
	cursor is at the top line of the scrolling region, the cursor is
	wrapped to the right-most column of the bottom line of the
	scrolling region.
If the cursor is at the top line of terminal
	window, the cursor is wrapped to the right-most
	column of the bottom line of the terminal window.
.br
\f346\fP	Enable logging.
When logging is enabled, all text received
	from the child process is logged to a file.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ \fP? \f2 pi\fP \f3 l\fP"
(\f3SM\fP) DEC private mode reset
This escape sequence sets DEC private
	modes.
Valid supported values of \f2 pi\fP are:
.P
\f31\fP	(\f3DECCKM\fP) Disable cursor keys mode.
When cursor keys
	mode is disabled, the arrow keys send ANSI cursor sequences
	to the host.
.br
\f33\fP	(\f3DECCOLM\fP) Disable 132-column mode.
When 132-column
	mode is disabled, the number of columns is the terminal win-
	dow changed to 80.
When entering into 80-column mode, the
	left, right, top, and bottom margins are reset to their default
	positions and the display is cleared.
.br
\f34\fP	(\f3DECSCLM\fP) Disable smooth scrolling.
When smooth scrol-
	ling is disabled, lines are added and the screen is scrolled up to
	a full screen at a time depending on how fast text is received
	from the child process.
.br
\f35\fP	(\f3DECSCNM\fP) Disable reverse video.
When reverse video
	mode is disabled, the foreground and background colors of the
	terminal window are not reversed.
.br
\f36\fP	(\f3DECOM\fP) Disable origin mode.
When origin mode is dis-
	abled, the home cursor position is the upper-left corner of the
	screen.
The starting point for line numbers is independent of
	the current top margin.
The cursor can be moved outside the
	top and bottom margins.
.br
\f37\fP	(\f3DECAWM\fP) Disable autowrap.
When autowrap mode is
	enabled, characters received when the cursor is at the right-
	most column of the page, replace the character already on
	the line.
.br
\f38\fP	(\f3DECARM\fP) Disable auto-repeat keys.
.br
\f340\fP	Disable \f3DECCOLM\fP escape sequence.
When the \f3 DEC-
	COLM\fP escape sequence is disabled, the terminal emulator
	ignores the \f3 DECCOLM\fP escape sequence and does not switch
	into either an 80- or 132-column window when it is received.
.br
\f344\fP	Disable margin bell.
When the margin bell is disabled, the
	terminal emulator's bell is not invoked when the cursor is
	a pre-defined distance from the right margin and a key is
	pressed.
.br
\f345\fP	Disable reverse-wraparound mode.
When reverse-autowrap
	mode is disabled, and a backspace is received when the cursor
	is at the left-most column of the page, the cursor remains at
	that position.
.br
\f346\fP	Disable logging.
When logging is disabled, text received from
	the child process is not logged to a file.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ ? \fP\f2 pi \fP\f3 r\fP"
Restore DEC private mode values.
The value corresponding to mode
\f2 pi\fP previously saved is restored (see below).
Valid values for
\f2 pi\fP are the same as the DEC private modes supported by \f3 SM\fP.
It is provided to maintain backward compatibility with xterm.
Using this escape sequence is discouraged.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ ?\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 s\fP"
Save DEC private mode values.
The value corresponding to mode \f2pi\fP is saved.
Valid values for \f2 pi\fP are the same as the DEC private modes supported by \f3SM\fP.
This escape sequence is provided to maintain backward compatibility with xterm.
Using this escape sequence is discouraged.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 ] \fP\f2 p1\fP \f3 ;\fP \f2 p2 Ctrl-G\fP"
Set text arguments.
This escape sequence allows various terminal emulator text values to be set.
Valid supported values of \f2p1\fP are:
.P
\f30\fP	Change the icon name and window title to \f2P2\fP.
.br
\f31\fP	Change the icon name to \f2P2\fP.
.br
\f32\fP	Change the window title to \f2P2\fP.
.br
\f33\fP	Set the current working directory to \f2P2\fP.  The terminal emulator
	tries to restart in this directory when it is restarted in a new session.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 ^ \fP\f2  message Esc BackSlash\fP"
(\f3PM\fP) Privacy message.
The data received in a privacy message is ignored and is not displayed.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 _ \fP\f2 pi Esc BackSlash\fP"
(\f3APC\fP) Application program command.
The terminal emulator implements no \f3 APC\fP functions.
The data is ignored and is not displayed.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 ~ \fP\f2 Esc \fP"
(\f3 LS1R\fP) Invoke the G1 Character Set.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP > \f2 pi\fP \f3 ; ... h\fP"
Turn scrollbar option \f2 pi\fP on.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP > \f2 pi \fP\f3 ; ... k\fP"
Report the status of scrollbar option \f2 pi\fP.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [\fP > \f2 pi\fP \f3 ; ... l\fP"
Turn scrollbar option \f2 pi\fP off.
.LI "\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ ?\fP \f2 pi\fP \f3 K\fP"
(\f3DECSEL\fP) Selective erase in line.
The default value is 0.
This escape sequence only erases erasable characters in a single line
of text.
Only those characters defined as erasable by the \f3 DECSCA\fP
escape sequence are erased.
A 0 argument value erases from the cursor through the end of the line.
A 1 argument value erases from the beginning of the line through the cursor.
A 2 argument value erases the complete line.
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 [ ? \fP\f2 pi\fP \f3 J\fP"
(\f3DECSED\fP) Selective erase in display.
The default value is 0.
This escape sequence only erases erasable characters in the display.
Only those characters defined as erasable by the \f3 DECSCA\fP
escape sequence are erased.
A 0 argument value erases from the cursor through the end of the display.
A 1 argument value erases from the beginning of the display through
cursor position.
A 2 argument value erases the complete display.
.LI "\f2 sc\fP \f3 ] l\fP \f2 text Esc BackSlash\fP"
Set window title to text
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 ] I \fP\f2 file Esc BackSlash\fP"
Set icon to icon found in file
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 ] L \fP\f2 label Esc BackSlash\fP"
Set icon to label
.LI "\f2Esc\fP \f3 ! p\fP"
(\f3DECSTR\fP) Soft terminal reset.
.LE
.HU "Transmitted Escape Sequences"
The cursor keys transmit the following escape sequences depending on the
setting of the mode specified either via the ``\f3appCursorDefault\fP''
resource or the mode specified via the \f3DECCKM\fP escape sequence.
.HU "Cursor Key Mode"
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
Key	Normal	Application
_
Cursor Up	Esc \f3 [ A\fP	Esc \f3 O A\fP
Cursor Down	Esc \f3 [ B\fP	Esc \f3 O B\fP
Cursor Right	Esc \f3 [ C\fP	Esc \f3 O C\fP
Cursor Left	Esc \f3 [ D\fP	Esc \f3 O D\fP
.TE
.P
The application keypad transmits the following escape sequences depending on the
setting of the mode specified either via the ``\f3appKeypadDefault\fP''
resource or the mode specified via the \f3 DECPNM\fP escape sequence.
.HU "Application Keypad Mode"
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
Key	Numeric	Application
_
Space	Space	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O A\fP
Tab	Tab	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O I\fP
Enter	CR	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O M\fP
PF1	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O P\fP	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O P\fP
PF2	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O Q\fP	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O Q\fP
PF3	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O R\fP	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O R\fP
PF4	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O S\fP	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O S\fP
* (multiply)	*	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O j\fP
+ (add)	+	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O k\fP
, (comma)	,	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O l\fP
- (minus)	-	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O m\fP
. (period)	.	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O n\fP
/ (divide)	/	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O o\fP
0	0	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O p\fP
1	1	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O q\fP
2	2	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O r\fP
3	3	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O s\fP
4	4	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O t\fP
5	5	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O u\fP
6	6	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O v\fP
7	7	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O w\fP
8	8	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O x\fP
9	9	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O y\fP
= (equal)	\&=	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 O X\fP
.TE
.P
The function keys transmit the following escape sequences unless
Sun function keys mode has been selected either via the \f3dtterm\fP
\f3-sk\fP option or the \f3sunFunctionKeys\fP \f3dtterm\fP or \f3DtTerm\fP widget resource.
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
Key	Escape Sequence
_
F1	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 1 ~\fP
F2	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 2 ~\fP
F3	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 3 ~\fP
F4	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 4 ~\fP
F5	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 5 ~\fP
F6	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 7 ~\fP
F7	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 8 ~\fP
F8	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 ~\fP
F9	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 0 ~\fP
F10	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 ~\fP
F11	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 3 ~\fP
F12	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 4 ~\fP
F13	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 5 ~\fP
F14	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 6 ~\fP
F15	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 8 ~\fP
F16	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 9 ~\fP
F17	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 1 ~\fP
F18	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 2 ~\fP
F19	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 3 ~\fP
F20	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 4 ~\fP
Help	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 8 ~\fP
Menu	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 9 ~\fP
Find	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 ~\fP
Insert	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 ~\fP
Delete	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 ~\fP
Remove	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 ~\fP
Select	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 4 ~\fP
Prior	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 5 ~\fP
Next	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 6 ~\fP
.TE
.P
The function keys transmits the following escape sequences if
Sun function keys mode has been selected either via the \f3dtterm\fP \f3-sk\fP option or the
\f3sunFunctionKeys\fP \f3dtterm\fP or \f3 DtTerm\fP widget resource.
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
Key	Escape Sequence
_
F1	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 4 z\fP
F2	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 5 z\fP
F3	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 6 z\fP
F4	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 7 z\fP
F5	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 8 z\fP
F6	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 9 z\fP
F7	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 3 0 z\fP
F8	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 3 1 z\fP
F9	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 3 2 z\fP
F10	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 3 3 z\fP
F11	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 2 z\fP
F12	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 3 z\fP
F13	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 4 z\fP
F14	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 5 z\fP
F15	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 6 z\fP
F16	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 7 z\fP
F17	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 8 z\fP
F18	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 9 z\fP
F19	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 0 0 z\fP
F20  	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 0 1 z\fP
F21 (R1) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 0 8 z\fP
F22 (R2) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 0 9 z\fP
F23 (R3) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 0 z\fP
F24 (R4) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 1 z\fP
F25 (R5) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 2 z\fP
F26 (R6) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 3 z\fP
F27 (R7) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 4 z\fP
F28 (R8) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 5 z\fP
F29 (R9) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 6 z\fP
F30 (R10) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 7 z\fP
F31 (R11) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 8 z\fP
F32 (R12) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 1 9 z\fP
F33 (R13) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 2 0 z\fP
F34 (R14) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 2 1 z\fP
F35 (R15) 	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 2 2 z\fP
Help	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 6 z\fP
Menu	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 9 7 z\fP
Find	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 1 z\fP
Insert	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 2 z\fP
Delete	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 z\fP
Remove	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 3 z\fP
Select	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 4 z\fP
Prior	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 5 z\fP
Next	\f2 Esc\fP \f3 [ 6 z\fP
.TE
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Cm dtterm 1,
.Cm DtCreateTerm 3.




