.\" @(#)sdtwebaction.5	1.2 96/06/20 SMI
.\" (c) Copyright 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ---
.TH sdtwebaction 5 "20 Jun 1996"
.BH "20 Jun 1996"
.\" ---
.SH "NAME"
sdtwebaction \- SunCDE web browser actions
.SH "AVAILABILITY"
SUNWdtdst
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B SDtWebClient [\f2url-file\fP]
.br
.B SDtNetscape [\f2url-file\fP]
.br
.B SDtHotJava [\f2url-file\fP]
.sp
.B Open \f2url-file\fP
.br
.B Print \f2url-file\fP
.sp
.B WebBrowser [\f2url-file\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The SunCDE Web Browser Services support the following
web browser actions:
.VL 6
.TP
.B \f3SDtWebClient\fP\0[\f2url-file\fP]
.br
Open a view of an available web browser using
.I sdtwebclient.
If no argument is specified the web browser's default home page is viewed.
If a
.I url-file
argument is specified the URL contained within that file is viewed.
.TP
.B \f3SDtNetscape\fP\0[\f2url-file\fP]
.br
Open a view of the
.I netscape
web browser.
If no argument is specified the web browser's default home page is viewed.
If a
.I url-file
argument is specified the URL contained within that file is viewed.
.TP
.B \f3SDtHotJava\fP\0[\f2url-file\fP]
.br
Open a view of the
.I hotjava
web browser.
If no argument is specified the web browser's default home page is viewed.
If a
.I url-file
argument is specified the URL contained within that file is viewed.
.TP
.B \f3Open\fP\0\f2url-file\fP
.br
Open a view of the URL contained within the
.I url-file
argument.
The type of view depends on the type of URL in the
.I url-file.
.TP
.B \f3Print\fP\0\f2url-file\fP	
.br
Print the view of the URL contained within the
.I url-file
argument.
.TP
.B \f3WebBrowser\fP\0[\f2url-file\fP]
.br
Open a view of the user's preferred web browser.
If no argument is specified the web browser's default home page is viewed.
If a
.I url-file
argument is specified the URL contained within that file is viewed.
.VL
.P
The user's preferred web browser defaults to the
.B
SDtWebClient
action.
The user's preferences can be customized by creating and 
editing the user-prefs.dt file in $HOME/.dt/types.
.P
These actions can be invoked from an application using the
.I DtActionInvoke(3)
function or invoked from a command line using the
.I dtaction(1)
utility.
.SH "DATATYPES"
The above actions use the URL (Uniform Resource Location) datatypes
which include:
.TP 14
.B WEB_URL
Specifies a web (e.g. http:) URL; handled by the
.I WebBrowser
action.
.TP
.B FILE_URL
Specifies a local file URL; handled by the
.I CDE DataTyping and Action Service.
.TP
.B RLOGIN_URL
Specifies a terminal login URL; handled by the
.I Terminal
action.
.TP
.B MAILTO_URL
Specifies a mail compose URL; handled by the
.I CDE Mailer Services.
.SH "FILES"
.PD 0
.TP 40
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/sdturl.dt
URL datatypes
.TP
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/sdtweb.dt
Web actions
.TP
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/user-prefs.dt
Default preferences
.TP
.B $HOME/.dt/types/user-prefs.dt
User preferences
.PD
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtaction (1),
.BR sdtwebclient (1),
.BR DtActionInvoke (3),
.BR dtfileaction (5),
.BR dtmailaction (5),
.BR dttermaction (5),
.BR dttextaction (5),
