.\" "@(#)cmsd.conf.4	1.2 96/06/12 Sun Microsystems, Inc."
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH cmsd.conf 4 "7 June 1996"
.BH "7 June 1996"
.SH NAME
cmsd.conf \- configuration file for the calendar server
.SH SYNOPSIS
The configuration file provides per host configuration for the calendar server.
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The calendar server configuration file contains configuration
information for
.BR rpc.cmsd (1),
the calendar server.  The configuration file
is read when
.BR rpc.cmsd
is started and read again when
.BR rpc.cmsd
is sent a
.BR SIGUSR1
signal.
.PP
The configuration files are:
.br
\f3/usr/dt/config/cmsd.conf
and
.br
/etc/dt/config/cmsd.conf
.PP
The file
.B /usr/dt/config/cmsd.conf
is created when CDE is installed.  It provides the default configuration
and serves as an example for customization. This file may be overwritten
by subsequent CDE installations.  Consequently, customized
configuration should be placed in the file
.B /etc/dt/config/cmsd.conf
because this file is not overwritten during installation.
.PP
If the configuration file
.B /etc/dt/config/cmsd.conf
exists,
.B rpc.cmsd
reads the configuration options specified in this file.  Otherwise,
.B rpc.cmsd
reads the configuration information from the file
.BR /usr/dt/config/cmsd.conf .
.PP
Each configuration file contains a list of keyword-value pairs
that provide various
information for the server.  Each configuration entry is composed of a
single line of the form:
.IP
.I keyword	value
.PP
The keyword must start the line and the value follows the keyword,
separated by white space.  If the same keyword appears in multiple
lines, the last entry prevails.  Lines beginning with a number sign (#)
are considered comments and are not processed.
.PP
Two configuration options are supported:
.PP
.B The trusted users option
.TP 20
.BI "trusted " value
Value specifies the list of users that are
allowed to create calendars on the local host.
Users are separated by white space.  Each user is
specified in the format
.I user@host.
If the form
.IR user
is used, then
.I user
from any host is allowed to
create calendars on the local host.
If the form
.IR @host
is used, then any user from the specified host is
allowed to create calendars on the local host.
If an empty list is specified, no user except the
local super user is allowed to create calendars on
the local host.
.PP
.B The untrusted users option
.TP 20
.BI "untrusted " value
Value specifies the list of users that are
not allowed to create calendars on the local host.
The format is the same as the trusted users option.
.PP
The
.BR trusted
and
.BR untrusted
options are used to control
who can and cannot create calendars on the local host, respectively.
If neither option is specified (i.e., no configuration entries
contain the keyword
.BR trusted
and no configuration entries contain the keyword
.BR untrusted
exists in the file, or no configuration files exist on the system),
.BR rpc.cmsd
allows any users
from any hosts to create calendars on the local host.  Otherwise,
a user from a particular host is allowed to create calendars if 
a match is found in the
.BR trusted
option or if the
.BR trusted
option is not specified and a match is not found in the
.BR untrusted
option.  The local super user is always allowed to
create calendars on the local host.
.SH EXAMPLES
This entry specifies that
.I user1
and
.I user2
from any host can create calendars on the local host.
.sp 0
.IP
.BR "trusted
.I user1 user2 "
.PP
This entry specifies that
.I user1@host1
and any user from
.I host2
can create calendars on the local host.
.sp 0
.IP
.B trusted
.I user1@host1 @host2
.PP
The following entries specifies that any user from
.I host1
except
.I user1@host1
can create calendars on the local host.
.sp 0
.IP
.B trusted
.I host1
.sp 0
.B untrusted
.I user1@host1
.PP
This entry specifies that no user (except the local super user) can
create calendars on the local host.
.sp 0
.IP
.B trusted
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/conf/cmsd.conf
.TP
.B /etc/dt/conf/cmsd.conf
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR rpc.cmsd (1)
