.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.TH DtDndProtocol 4 "17 June 1994"
.BH "17 June - 1994"
.SH NAME
DtDndProtocol \(em drag and drop matching and transfer protocols
.iX "DtDndProtocol"
.\"--- 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The drag and drop protocols provide policy for 
matching and data transfer between the drag initiator and 
the drop receiver of file names, selected text spans, and 
application defined structured data formats.  
.LP
The drag and drop protocols use the standard X11 selection targets where available with the addition of several new selection targets where required.
.LP
These protocols provide for the transfer of the following types of data:
.TP 2
.I \(bu
File Names
.TP 2
.I \(bu
Selected Text
.TP 2
.I \(bu
Structured Data
.SH "PROTOCOL OVERVIEW"
.LP
Each protocol consists of the following:
.SS "Drag and Drop API Protocol"
.LP
Each protocol described corresponds to a specific DtDndProtocol enumeration.
.SS "Export/Import Targets"
.LP
The Motif drag and drop API provides support for matching of the data 
transfer protocol between the drag initiator and the various drop receivers. 
This allows the user to readily determine which drop sites will accept the 
dragged data.  
.LP
The drag initiator sets the 
.I XmNexportTargets 
resource of the 
.I XmDragContext
to the list of target atoms that describe the data being dragged. 
The drop receiver sets the 
.I XmNimportTargets 
resource of the 
.I XmDropSite
to the list of target atoms that describe the data 
that it will accept. 
The Motif drag and drop subsystem allows drops when the 
.I XmNexportTargets 
and 
.I XmNimportTargets 
have at least one target in common.
.SS "Data Transfer Protocol"
.LP
Once the drag initiator has dropped on the drop receiver, the transfer 
of data is begun. The transfer is accomplished using X selections and 
is controlled by the drop receiver.
.LP
The drop receiver starts all transfers by converting the ICCCM 
.I TARGETS
target to get the set of available selection targets. It then chooses 
the appropriate selections from that set and requests that the drag 
initiator convert each requested selection. Each protocol has a set 
of selection targets that are used to transfer all the necessary data. 
These target conversions are usually initiated by calling 
.I
XmDropTransferStart.
.SS "Move Completion"
.LP
When the operation of the drop is 
.I XmDROP_MOVE
, the drop receiver must complete the move using an appropriate method. 
For most data transfers, this is accomplished by converting the ICCCM 
.I DELETE
target to tell the drag initiator that it may delete the data. 
For most file name transfers, this is accomplished via the file system.
.SH "FILE NAME TRANSFER PROTOCOL"
The transfer protocol is used to exchange file names. 
.SS "Drag and Drop API"
.LP
The protocol used when a 
.I DtDndProtocol of 
.I DtDND_FILENAME_TRANSFER 
is specified.
.SS "Export/Import Targets"
.LP
The export or import targets are 
.I FILE_NAME 
and optionally 
.I _DT_NET_FILE
if capable of providing the file name in network canonical form using 
.I tt_file_netfile()
and 
.I tt_netfile_file()
.
.SS "Data Transfer Protocol"
.LP
If the ICCCM 
.I HOST_NAME 
target is available it is converted. If the returned host name is 
different than the host name for the drop receiver and the 
.I _DT_NETFILE 
target is available it is converted. The drag initiator uses 
.I tt_file_netfile()
to encode the file names and the drop receiver uses 
.I tt_netfile_file()
to decode the file names.
.LP
If the hosts are the same for both the drag initiator and the drop receiver 
or either the 
.I HOST_NAME or the 
.I _DT_NETFILE
targets are not available from the drag initiator, the drop receiver 
converts the ICCCM 
.I FILE_NAME 
target. No encoding of the file names occurs in this case.
.SS "Move Completion"
.LP
Moves of file names can be accomplished atomically using standard file 
system operations. Drop receivers are encouraged to use the file system. 
The drop receiver may alternately choose to use the ICCCM 
.I DELETE 
target to complete the 
.I XmDROP_MOVE 
and the drag initiator must be ready to comply.
.SH "STRUCTURED DATA FORMAT TRANSFER PROTOCOL"
The transfer protocol is used to exchange structured data 
in an application defined format. 
.SS "Drag and Drop API"
.LP
The protocol used when a 
.I DtDndProtocol
of 
.I DtDND_DATA_TRANSFER 
is specified.
.SS "Export/Import Targets"
.LP
The export and import targets are application defined. 
These can be any target that describes the format of the data.
.LP
To support drop receivers which wish to accept any data format the 
.I _DT_UNTYPED 
is used. The drop receiver which wants to accept any data format would 
include 
.I _DT_UNTYPED 
in the import targets along with any other desired targets. 
The drag initiator always includes the 
.I _DT_UNTYPED 
target in its export targets along with format specific targets.
.SS "Data Transfer Protocol"
.LP
The drop receiver would choose the most desired target from the 
available targets and convert it to get the data being dragged.
.LP
If the drop receiver will accept any data formats and the 
.I _DT_UNTYPED 
target is available it is converted to get the data in whatever format 
the drag initiator chooses.
.LP
If the 
.I _DT_DATA_LABEL 
target is available it is converted to get a label that can 
be presented to the user.
.SS "Move Completion"
.LP
The move is completed by converting the ICCCM 
.I DELETE
target.
.SH "TEXT TRANSFER PROTOCOL"
The text transfer protocol is used to exchange text selections. 
.SS "Drag and Drop API"
.LP
The protocol used when a 
.I DtDndProtocol 
of 
.I DtDND_TEXT_TRANSFER 
is specified.
.SS "Export/Import Targets"
.LP
The export or import targets are any of the following; the target 
describing the character encoding of the text selection, 
.I COMPOUND_TEXT
, 
.I STRING
or 
.I TEXT
.
.SS "Data Transfer Protocol"
.LP
The transfer of text selections follows the protocols described in the 
ICCCM manual. If the character encoding of the drag initiator and drop 
receiver are the same that target should be converted to get the 
text selection. If the character encoding are different, the drop 
receiver should attempt to convert the standard text targets in the 
following order; 
.I COMPOUND_TEXT
, 
.I STRING
or 
.I TEXT
.SS "Move Completion"
.LP
The move is completed by converting the ICCCM DELETE target.
.SH "SELECTION TARGETS"
The following table describes the selection targets used in the 
drag and drop data matching and transfer protocols.
.TP 15
.I Atom (Type)
Description
.TP 15
.I TARGETS (ATOM)
A list of valid target atoms. 
See ICCCM section 2.6.2.
.TP 15
.I DELETE (NULL)
Used to delete the dropped data. If the drop receiver wishes to perform 
a move operation on the data, after copying the data it should 
request conversion of the DELETE target. 
See ICCCM section 2.6.3.1.
.TP 15
.I COMPOUND_TEXT (COMPOUND_TEXT)
The text selection in compound text format. 
See ICCCM section 2.7.1.
.TP 15
.I STRING (STRING)
The text selection in ISO Latin-1 format. 
See ICCCM section 2.7.1.
.TP 15
.I TEXT (TEXT)
The text selection in the format preferred by the selection holder. 
See ICCCM section 2.7.1.
.TP 15
.I HOST_NAME (TEXT)
The name of the machine running the client as seen from the 
machine running the server. 
See ICCCM section 2.6.2.
.TP 15
.I FILE_NAME (TEXT)
The full path name of the files. 
See ICCCM section 2.6.2.
.TP 15
.I _DT_NETFILE (TEXT)
The full path name of the files, each encoded using 
.I tt_file_netfile() 
and decoded using 
.I tt_netfile_file()
.
.TP 15
.I _DT_UNTYPED (TEXT)
The data in the owner's choice of formats. 
This provides the polymorphism of the TEXT target for data that is not text.
.TP 15
.I _DT_DATA_LABEL (TEXT)
The label or name of the data suitable for presentation to the user.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtDndDragStart (3),
.BR DtDndVaDragStart (3),
.BR DtDndVaDropRegister (3),
.BR DtDndDropUnregister (3),
.BR XmDragContext (3),
.BR XmDragStart (3),
.BR XmDropRegister (3),
.BR XmDropSite (3),
.BR DtDropTransferStart (3),
.BR tt_file_netfile (3),
.BR tt_netfile_file (3),
.BR "X11/R5 Inter-Client Communications Conventions Manual (ICCCM)"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.LP
(c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.br
(c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a susidiary of Novell, Inc.
