.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.TH dtdtfile 4
.SH NAME
dtdtfile \- format and location of desktop data type and action files
.SH SYNOPSIS
See
.BR dtactionfile(4)
and
.BR dtdtsfile(4).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIAction/Data Type\fP database provides definitions for the data types
and actions recognized by clients participating in the Common Desktop 
Environment (CDE).  Files containing Action/Data Type definitions must end
with the \fI.dt\fP suffix.  The data base is constructed by reading
all files, ending in the \fI.dt\fP suffix, found in the search path
specified by the \fBDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP environment variable.  
.PP
This database has similarities with other configuration
databases used by CDE (e.g. font panel configuration).  such as:
.TP
\(bu
The database can be spread across multiple files in multiple directories on
multiple systems.
.TP
\(bu
Database files are identified by unique filename suffixes (i.e. \fI.dt\fP).
.TP
\(bu
Database records consist of a series of field name/value pairs.
.TP
\(bu
Multiple record types may appear in the same database file.
.TP
\(bu
Database entries can reference string variables which may be set either within
the database file or via environment variables.
.PP
The \fBDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP environment variable contains a comma-separated
list of directories specified in \fI[host:]/path\fP format. The \fIhost:\fP
portion is optional but, if specified,  \fIhost\fP defines the 
\fIDatabaseHost\fP for records defined by files in the \fI/path\fP directory.
Otherwise, the \fIDatabaseHost\fP is the same as the \fILocalHost\fP. 
The search path should generally be set by the normal CDE session startup
procedures;  the actual value of the search path my be modified by the local
system administrator or the user (in \fI$HOME/.dtprofile\fP).  The default
search path includes the following directories:
.TP
\(bu
$HOME/.dt/types/$(LANG) \(em personal user-defined localized database files
.TP
\(bu
$HOME/.dt/types/ \(em personal user-defined database files
.TP
\(bu
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/$(LANG) \(em locally defined language-specific database files.
.TP
\(bu
/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C \(em locally defined default database files
.TP
\(bu
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/$(LANG) \(em language-specific database files
.TP
\(bu
/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C \(em factory supplied default database files
.SH FILE FORMAT
See
.BR dtactionfile(4),
and
.BR dtdtsfile(4).
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  dtactionfile(4),
.BR  dtdtsfile(4),
.BR  dttypes(1).
./" tooltalk man page should  be referenced.
./" should dtaction or dtfile be referenced?
