.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix SystemLabes, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.TH \fBdtfpfile\fP 4
.SH NAME
\fIdtfpfile\fP \(em  format and locations for front panel configuration files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fIRecordType\fP  \fIrecord_name\fP
{
.in +5n
# Comment
\fIKeyword\fP \fIValue\fP
\fIKeyword\fP \fIValue\fP
        \.
        \.
        \.
.in -5n
}
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The front panel database provides definitions for the components
which define the content and functionality of the front panel.  Files 
containing front panel definitions must end with the \fI.fp\fP suffix.
Like the Action/Data Type database, the front panel database is constructed
by reading all files, ending in the \fI.fp\fP suffix, found in the search path
specified by the \fBDTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP environment variable.  
.PP
See \fIdtdtfile(4)\fP for a complete description of the
directory locations where these database files are found and for a description
of the specific syntax for the database files.
.SH FILE FORMAT
The general syntax of the Front Panel configuration files is as described 
above in the SYNOPSIS section of this man page.  Descriptions of \fIComments,
Versions\fP and \fIVariables\fP can be found in \fIdtdtfile(4).\fP
.PP
The front panel defines a new set of \fIRecord Types\fP each with a set of
\fIKeyword, Value\fP pairs.
There are a total of six record types defined \fB(PANEL, BOX, SUBPANEL, 
SWITCH, CONTROL and ANIMATION)\fP. Each record type has a set of
keywords defined for it.  Many of the keywords are used for 
multiple record types.  In the following tables containing the listing
of the keywords for each record type, a \fB*\fP in the Default column of the
table indicates that this value must be specified.
.bp
.SS "Record Types"
.TP
.B \PANEL \fI"front panel name"\fP
.sp .5
The \fBPANEL\fP record type defines the outermost container of the front
panel.  It can contain one or more \fBBOX\fP'es and optionally repositioning
handles, a menu and minimize button.
The keywords defined for \fBPANEL\fP are as follows.
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 sss
lBp7 lBp7 lBp7
lp7 lp7 lp7.
\fBPANEL\fP Record Type Keyword Set
Keyword	Value	Default
_
PANEL_GEOMETRY	[+/- x-offset][+/- y-offset]	Null
DISPLAY_HANDLES	(True/False)	True
DISPLAY_MENU	(True/False)	True
DISPLAY_MINIMIZE	(True/False)	True
RESOLUTION	(high/medium/low/match_display)	match_display
CONTROL_BEHAVIOR	(double_click/single_click)	double_click
DISPLAY_CONTROL_LABELS	(True/False)	False
SUBPANEL_UNPOST	(True/False)	True
LOCKED	(True/False)	False
HELP_STRING	string	Null
HELP_TOPIC	topic name	Null
HELP_VOLUME	volume name	FPanel
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp .5
.sp .5
.TP
.B \BOX \fI"box name"\fP
.sp .5
The \fBBOX\fP record type defines a container within a \fBPANEL\fP that can
hold a row of \fPCONTROLS\fP and at most one \fBSWITCH\fP container.
Multiple \fBBOX\fP'es within a \fBPANEL\fP are stacked vertically.
The keywords defined for \fBBOX\fP are as follows.
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 sss
lBp7 lBp7 lBp7
lp7 lp7 lp7.
\fBBOX\fP Record Type Keyword Set
Keyword	Value	Default
_
CONTAINER_NAME	front panel name	Null \fB*\fP
POSITION_HINTS	(first/last/1-99)	first
LOCKED	(True/False)	False
DELETE	(True/False)	False
HELP_STRING	string	Null
HELP_TOPIC	topic name	Null
HELP_VOLUME	volume name	FPanel
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp .5
.sp .5
.TP
.B \SUBPANEL \fI"subpanel name"\fP
.sp .5
The \fBSUBPANEL\fP record type defines a secondary container for \fPCONTROL\fPs
which "slide up" from the front panel.  \fBSUBPANEL\fPs can also contain a
drop zone where new controls can be dynamically added.
The keywords defined for \fBSUBPANEL\fP are as follows.
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 sss
lBp7 lBp7 lBp7
lp7 lp7 lp7.
\fBSUBPANEL\fP Record Type Keyword Set
Keyword	Value	Default
_
CONTAINER_NAME	control name	Null \fB*\fP
CONTROL_INSTALL	(True/False)	True
TITLE	string	Null
LOCKED	(True/False)	False
DELETE	(True/False)	False
HELP_STRING	string	Null
HELP_TOPIC	topic name	Null
HELP_VOLUME	volume name	FPanel
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp .5
.sp .5
.TP
.B \SWITCH \fI"switch name"\fP
.sp .5
The \fBSWITCH\fP record type defines a container within a \fBBOX\fP which
contains a set of push buttons each of which give access to a corresponding
workspace.  See \fIdtwm(1)\fP for a description of the multiple workspace
capabilities.  Also contained within the \fBSWITCH\fP container is an
optional set of \fBCONTROL\fPs.  These are presented in a column on each
side of the push buttons.
The keywords defined for \fBSWITCH\fP are as follows.
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 sss
lBp7 lBp7 lBp7
lp7 lp7 lp7.
\fBSWITCH\fP Record Type Keyword Set
Keyword	Value	Default
_
CONTAINER_NAME	box name	Null \fB*\fP
POSITION_HINTS	(first/last/1-99)	first
NUMBER_OF_ROWS	(1-N)	2
LOCKED	(True/False)	False
DELETE	(True/False)	False
HELP_STRING	string	Null
HELP_TOPIC	topic name	Null
HELP_VOLUME	volume name	FPanel
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp .5
.sp .5
.TP
.B \CONTROL \fI"control name"\fP
.sp .5
The \fBCONTROL\fP record type defines the main functional component of the
front panel.  \fBCONTROL\fP's typically have actions defined for them that
are invoked on selection and/or drag & drop.  \fBCONTROL\fP's are displayed
with icons or labels and can have iconic animations associated with them.
The keywords defined for \fBCONTROL\fP are as follows.
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 sss
lBp7 lBp7 lBp7
lp7 lp7 lp7.
\fBCONTROL\fP Record Type Keyword Set
Keyword	Value	Default
_
TYPE	(blank/busy/icon/client/clock/date/file)	Null \fB*\fP
CONTAINER_TYPE	(BOX/SWITCH/SUBPANEL)	Null \fB*\fP
CONTAINER_NAME	(box name/switch name/subpanel name)	Null \fB*\fP
POSITION_HINTS	(first/last/1-99)	first
ICON	image name	Null
ALTERNATE_ICON	image name	Null
LABEL	string	Null
PUSH_ACTION	action_name	Null
PUSH_ANIMATION	animation name	Null
DROP_ACTION	action_name	Null
DROP_ANIMATION	animation name	Null
PUSH_RECALL	(True/False)	False
MONITOR_TYPE	(none/mail/file)	none
CLIENT_NAME	client name	Null
CLIENT_GEOMETRY	[width x height]	Null
FILE_NAME	file name	Null
DATE_FORMAT	format string	%b%n%e
LOCKED	(True/False)	False
DELETE	(True/False)	False
HELP_STRING	string	Null
HELP_TOPIC	topic name	Null
HELP_VOLUME	volume name	FPanel
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp .5
.sp .5
.TP
.B \ANIMATION \fI"animation name"\fP
.sp .5
\fBANIMATION\fPs are a sequence of image name/time delay pairs that are 
displayed by a \fBCONTROL\fP upon a \fBPUSH_ACTION\fP and/or 
\fBDROP_ACTION.\fP
.sp .5
.in 0
.KS
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center;
cBp7 sss
lBp7 lBp7 lBp7
lp7 lp7 lp7.
\fBANIMATION\fP Record Type Keyword Set
Keyword	Value	Default
_
ANIMATION	image name, [millisecond delay]	None, 200
.TE
.in
.sp 1
.KE
.in
.sp 4.5
.SS "Keyword and Value Descriptions"
.PP
The following list contains a description of each of the keywords defined by
the front panel.
.sp 1.5
.B \ALTERNATE_ICON
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Used with control types of: busy and icon
.PP
\fBALTERNATE_ICON\fP defines an image to be used to replace the normal 
image within a mail or monitor_file control in the front panel. The image
is displayed when the file being monitored changes. For the busy control, 
\fBALTERNATE_ICON\fP is cycled with \fBICON\fP to give the blinking effect.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \ANIMATION
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBANIMATION\fP
.br
\(bu
Used with control keywords of: \fBPUSH_ANIMATION\fP and \fBDROP_ANIMATION\fP
.PP
\fBANIMATION\fP defines a sequence of images to be displayed for either a 
\fBPUSH_ACTION\fP or \fBDROP_ACTION\fP. Each animation within the list is 
displayed in order with a default time separation of 200 milliseconds. For 
a slower or faster sequence, the image name value can be followed by the 
amount of time to display the image.  If no time value is specified the
previously specified value is used.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \CLIENT_GEOMETRY
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Used with control types of: client
.br
\(bu
Used with control keywords of: \fBCLIENT_NAME\fP
.PP
\fBCLIENT_GEOMETRY\fP specifies the size (in pixels) needed for the 
window of a client displayed within the front panel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \CLIENT_NAME
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Used with control types of: client or icon
.br
\(bu
Used with control keywords of: \fBPUSH_RECALL\fP
.PP
\fBCLIENT_NAME\fP specifies a name used to associate a control with an 
executable. It is necessary for control types of client (an X client 
running within the front panel) and for icon when the keyword 
\fBPUSH_RECALL\fP is True. The value client name is the name of the 
executable or can be set via a command line parameter for some 
clients (xterm -name panelterm).  The client name for a running client can
be found by executing xprop.  The first string of the WM_CLASS property is
the value used.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \CONTAINER_NAME
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBBOX, SUBPANEL, SWITCH, CONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBCONTAINER_NAME\fP associates a component with it parent. For example,
the \fBCONTAINER_NAME\fP value for a \fBSWITCH\fP tells the front panel which 
\fBBOX\fP to place it into. Since controls can reside several different 
component types, \fBCONTAINER_NAME\fP is used in conjunction with 
\fBCONTAINER_TYPE\fP to define a controls parent.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \CONTAINER_TYPE
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBCONTAINER_TYPE\fP defines a controls parent type. This is used to 
uniquely identify a control so that it can be created within the proper parent.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \CONTROL_BEHAVIOR
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBCONTROL_BEHAVIOR\fP provides the mechanism for setting the user model 
for front panel controls. Controls can be set to invoke their 
\fBPUSH_ACTION\fP by either single click or double click.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \CONTROL_INSTALL
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBSUBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBCONTROL_INSTALL\fP enables or disables dynamic control installation 
into subpanels. A value of True causes the control installation area 
to be displayed within the subpanel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DATE_FORMAT
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for control types of: date
.PP
\fBDATE_FORMAT\fP specifies the layout of the date string for a control of 
type date. This format is used by the unix command strftime. See 
strftime(3) for a description of the format.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DELETE\fP
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBBOX, SUBPANEL, SWITCH, CONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBDELETE\fP is used to override and remove and non-locked component from 
the front panel. This is necessary to eliminate system default front 
panel components without replacing the default files. To use \fBDELETE\fP
a copy of the component definition with the additioinal \fBDELETE\fP keyword
is stored in a .fp file in the users or application types directory.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DISPLAY_CONTROL_LABELS
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBDISPLAY_CONTROL_LABELS\fP specifies whether the controls contained within 
the front panels boxes will have their labels displayed.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DISPLAY_HANDLES
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBDISPLAY_HANDLES\fP, if set to True causes the move handles to be 
displayed along the left and right edges of the front panel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DISPLAY_MENU
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBDISPLAY_MENU\fP, if set to True with \fBDISPLAY_HANDLES\fP also set to 
True causes the system menu button to be displayed in the upper left 
hand corner of the front panel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DISPLAY_MINIMIZE
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBDISPLAY_MINIMIZE\fP, if set to True with \fBDISPLAY_HANDLES\fP also set 
to True causes the minimize button to be displayed in the upper right
hand corner of the front panel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DROP_ACTION
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBDROP_ACTION\fP specifies the function that is invoked when a drop occurs 
on the control.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \DROP_ANIMATION
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for all control types except: client
.PP
\fBDROP_ANIMATION\fP specifies the name of an animation record to be 
displayed when a drop occurs on the control. The control must have
a \fBDROP_ACTION\fP defined for the animation to be used.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \FILE_NAME
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for control types of: icon and file
.PP
For the control type of file, \fBFILE_NAME\fP is the name of the file to be 
used for the control. The files file type, actions and images are extracted
from the action database for the control. For control types of main and 
monitor_file, \fBFILE_NAME\fP specifies the name of the file the front panel
is to monitor for either mail arrival or some other user defined data.
For control types of monitor_file, the \fBALTERNATE_ICON\fP image is displayed
when the monitored file is non-empty. The \fBICON\fP image is displayed 
if the file is empty or non-existent. For controls types mail, the
\fBALTERNATE_ICON\fP image is displayed when the file increases in size.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \HELP_STRING
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of:  \fBPANEL, BOX, SUBPANEL, SWITCH and CONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBHELP_STRING\fP specifies an on-line help string to display when 
help is requested over a front panel component. Since each component 
type can have a help string associated with it, there is a precedence
used in deciding which help string to display. Control help takes precedence
over box help, switch help and subpanel help. Box help takes precedence 
over panel help.
.PP
The \fBHELP_STRING\fP value is used only if no \fBHELP_TOPIC\fP value has 
been defined.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \HELP_TOPIC
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of:  \fBPANEL, BOX, SUBPANEL, SWITCH and CONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBHELP_TOPIC\fP specifies an on-line help topic which is used with 
either the default help volume or a help volume specified by the
\fBHELP_VOLUME\fP keyword to display help information when requested 
over a front panel component. Like the \fBHELP_STRING\fP keyword, each
component type can have a help topic associated with it and the same
precedence rules are used.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \HELP_VOLUME
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL, BOX, SUBPANEL, SWITCH and CONTROL\fP 
.PP
\fBHELP_VOLUME\fP, when used in conjunction with \fBHELP_TOPIC\fP, defines
the help information to be displayed for a front panel component.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \ICON
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for controls types of: icon, file, and busy.
.PP
\fBICON\fP specifies image to be displayed within a control.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
\fBLABEL\fP
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for control types of:  icon, file, clock and busy.
.PP
\fBLABEL\fP specifies the string to be displayed when a control is 
in a subpanel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
\fBLOCKED\fP
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL, BOX, SUBPANEL, SWITCH and CONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBLOCKED\fP provides the mechanism to prevent a component definition 
of identical type, name and parent from overriding (replacing) this
definition. Since the front panel can be defined within multiple 
configuration files, it provides the flexibility override components
found earlier in the search path.  Like Actions and Filetypes, this gives
the ability to customize the front panel at several levels.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \MONITOR_TYPE
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for control types of: icon and file
.PP
\fBMONITOR_TYPE\fP specifies the method of checking the file being monitored,
specified by the keyword \fBMONITOR_FILE.\fP
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \NUMBER_OF_ROWS
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBSWITCH\fP
.PP
\fBNUMBER_OF_ROWS\fP provides control over the layout of the workspace 
switch buttons.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \PANEL_GEOMETRY
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBPANEL_GEOMETRY\fP specifies a non-default location to position the
front panel when it is created.  By default, the front panel is centered
along the bottom of the display.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \POSITION_HINTS
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBBOX, SWITCH, and CONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBPOSITION_HINTS\fP specifies the ordering of boxes in the front panel,
the switch and controls in boxes and controls in subpanels. When two 
components have the same value for \fBPOSITION_HINTS\fP, the first one 
read from the configuration file is placed first.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \PUSH_ACTION
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.PP
\fBPUSH_ACTION\fP specifies the function that is invoked when a selection 
occurs on the control.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \PUSH_ANIMATION
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Allowed for all control types except: client
.PP
\fBPUSH_ANIMATION\fP specifies the name of an animation record to be 
displayed when a selection occurs on the control. The control must 
have a \fBPUSH_ACTION\fP defined for the animation to be used.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \PUSH_RECALL
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.br
\(bu
Used with control keywords of: \fBCLIENT_NAME\fP
.PP
\fBPUSH_RECALL\fP, when True specifies that only one process can be 
started by the control. If the process is already running, it is 
displayed within the current workspace and shuffled to the top of
the window stack. The value for the \fBCLIENT_NAME\fP keyword is used
to identify the process for push recall behavior.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \RESOLUTION
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBRESOLUTION\fP, allows the icon set for the front panel to be forced 
to a particular set. By default, the front panel will determine the 
display resolution at runtime and choose the high resolution icon set if 
the display width is 1024 pixels or wider.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \SUBPANEL_UNPOST
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBSUBPANEL_UNPOST\fP, when True, causes a subpanel to hide itself 
whenever a \fBPUSH_ACTION\fP occurs on one of the subpanels controls.
If the subpanel has been "torn off" of the front panel, the 
behavior of the subpanel is forced to remain posted upon \fBPUSH_ACTION\fPs.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \TITLE
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBSUBPANEL\fP
.PP
\fBTITLE\fP, specifies the string to be displayed in the title area of 
the subpanel.
.in -2n
.sp 2.5
.B \TYPE
.in +2n
.br
\(bu
Used for record types of: \fBCONTROL\fP
.PP
A number of different control types are defined by the front panel.
.PP
\fIblank\fP - Space-holder control.
.br
\fIbusy\fP - Busy light.
.br
\fIclient\fP - A client window.
.br
\fIclock\fP - Front panel clock.
.br
\fIdate\fP - Front panel date.
.br
\fIfile\fP - References a file on the file system. Uses the files actions and image.
.br
\fIicon\fP - Front panel general control.
.in -2n
.SH FILES
The default Front Panel configuration file can be found in 
\fI/usr/dt/appconfig/types/C/dtwm.fp.\fP
.sp
Files containing the attributes of dynamically created Front Panel components
can be found in the directory \fI$HOME/.dt/types/fp_dynamic.\fP
.SH ERRORS
Errors encountered when loading Front Panel database files are written to the
CDE errorlog file.  Records containing errors are rejected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  dtwm(1),
.BR  dtdtfile(4)
