.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.TH dthffile 4 "11 Jan 1994"
.BH "11 Jan 1994"
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
dthffile \- format and location of desktop data type and action files
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
See
.BR dthelpgen(1).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.RS
The Family file is based on the X11 syntax for application resources.  The are
used in conjunction with dthelpgen(1), to generate a "browser" help volume 
that allows users to navigate through all of the available help information.
.P
The family file, <filename>.hf, contains the following fields: character set,
title, abstract, volume list and an optional image name.
.TP 8
.B charSet
Specifies the standard Cde locale and code set value, to be used in
parsing the title and abstract fields of the family file. The default 
value is 'en_US.iso8859-1'. See "Cde Help System Author's and Programmer's
Guide" for a complete list of supported locales and code sets. The
family title and abstract must not contain any HelpTag
markup as this file is not processed by the HelpTag
software.
.TP
.B title
Specifies the title of the family, as displayed in the top-level of the browser
help volume.
.TP
.B abstract
Specifies the abstract for the family. Used to describe the family, it
gives information about what type of volumes are in this family or
why these volumes are related. For long abstracts, the
backslash character can be used to continue to the next line.
.TP
.B volumes
Specifies which volumes belong to the family. The 
volumes will be listed in the order they appear on this line. A volume may 
be listed in more than one family. This is a list of volume
names separated by spaces. The ending
.B .sdl
extension must be specified if the search path contains a
.B %H
rather than a
.BR %H.sdl .
See the
.B Environment Variables
section for more information about Cde Help search path syntax and utilization.
.TP
.B [bitmap]
Specifies the image that pictorially describes the family. 
This image will be displayed in the top-level browser volume just under the 
family title, and left of the abstract text.  
.P
The icon file is optional. If you provide one, the 
path you use to specify the location of the file should be a complete 
pathname. If you do not provide an icon, do not include the *.bitmap 
resource in your family file. 
.P
The extension to the file name indicates the image type.
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	.xwd     X11 XWD file
.br
	.tif     TIFF 5.0 image file
.br
	.pm      X11 X Pixmap file
.br
	.bm      X11 Bitmap file
.fi
.RE
.sp1
.SS FAMILY FILE EXAMPLE
.ta
.br
        *.charSet:    iso8859-1
.br

.br
        *.title:      Developer's Information About The Help System
.br

.br
        *.abstract:   Abstract giving a short description about \\
.br
        the help system... 
.br
        *.volumes:    helpkit.sdl helpdemo.sdl
.br
        *.bitmap:     /usr/local/bitmap/helpGraphic.bm
.fi
.sp1
.SS REGISTERING A PRODUCT FAMILY
If you are also registering a product family, you create and install a help 
family file (product.hf) with the rest of the product's help files. 
You register the family file by running the dtappintegrate script which 
creates a symbolic link to the product.hf file. For most products, the 
appropriate place for the link is /etc/dt/appconfig/help/language/. See
dtappintegrate(1), for more information on registering help within the desktop.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR  dthelpgen(1)

