.cdes
.TH dticonfile 4 "23 May, 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dticonfile \- icon conventions for Cde icons
.SH SYNOPSIS
The conventions used within the Cde for icon
sizes, naming, location, and usage are specified.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.cdee
.xos
This section describes conventions for icon
sizes, naming, location and usage within \*(Zx.
.P
.xoe
Both X Pixmap and X Bitmap icon file formats are used within the Cde.
X Pixmap (XPM) icons are multi-color images
based on the XPM format developed by Arnaud Le Hors.
A pixmap file is
.cde an ASCII
.xo a text
file that can be read and modified by hand, in addition to
using color pixmap editors (like the Cde Icon Editor).
X Bitmap (XBM)
icons are monochrome (two-color) images based on the official X11 Bitmap
File Format.
.cde Bitmap files are ASCII files;
.cde however, the data is simply a binary representation of the bitmap,
.xo A bitmap file is a text file that contains
.xo a binary representation of the bitmap,
and as such is not easily read or modified by hand.
.cde The Cde icon editor can create and modify XBM icons.
The icon editor has the ability to write out any icon in either
the XPM or XBM file format.
For a more detailed description of these
file formats and the icon editor, see
.cdes
the
.BR dtbmfile (4),
.BR dtpmfile (4)
and
.Cm dticon 1
man pages.
.cdee
.xos
the \*(Zn and
.cX iconeditsvcs .
.xoe
.cde .HU "File Naming"
.xo .H 3 "File Naming"
Cde icon file names are typically in one of the
following forms:
.Cs I
\f2basename\fP.\f2format\fP
\f2basename\fP.\f2size\fP.\f2format\fP
.Ce
.P
The
.I basename
is the logical name of the icon.
The basenames for icons that are installed with Cde begin with
either
.B Dt
or
.BR Fp .
.B Dt
is the default prefix for all Cde icons.
The
.B Fp
prefix is used for icons that appear in the
front panel when an icon other than the default
.B Dt
icon is desired.
In this case, the basename is the same.
.P
If an additional icon is needed for the client
.B iconImage
(iconified client window icon), a third prefix,
.BR Ic ,
is used.
.P
The
.I format
is
.B pm
for a pixmap file and
.B bm
for a bitmap file.
Size is a single letter:
.B l
for large,
.B m
for medium,
.B s
for small and
.B t
for tiny.
Many of the
logical icons are provided in multiple sizes for both color and monochrome.
This allows Cde to use the optimal color and size
combination for the specific task and configuration the user is running.
Many bitmap icons have a mask
associated with the icon.
These are named
\f2basename.size\f3_m.\f2format\f1.
All icons are named so that the longest
filename associated with that icon is 14 bytes or less; this allows
it to be used on a short filename system.
The longest filename can be
described as \f3Dt\f2xxxxx\f3_m.l.pm\f1,
where
.I xxxxx
is the logical icon name.
.HU Example
This is an example of icon files that might be associated with the
icon
.BR foo .
The single logical icon
.B foo
contains tiny,
small, medium and large bitmap icons (with mask) and pixmap icons.
.Cs I
Dtfoo.t.pm
Dtfoo.t.bm
Dtfoo.t_m.bm
Dtfoo.s.pm
Dtfoo.s.bm
Dtfoo.s_m.bm
Dtfoo.m.pm
Dtfoo.m.bm
Dtfoo.m_m.bm
Dtfoo.l.pm
Dtfoo.l.bm
Dtfoo.l_m.bm
.Ce
.cde .HU "Icon Sizes"
.xo .H 3 "Icon Sizes"
Icons of the following sizes and with the following suffixes are supported:
.VL 15
.LI Large
48\|\(mu\|48 icon with \f3.l\fP suffix
.LI Medium
32\|\(mu\|32 icon with \f3.m\fP suffix
.LI Small
24\|\(mu\|24 icon with \f3.s\fP suffix
.LI Tiny
16\|\(mu\|16 icon with \f3.t\fP suffix
.LE
.P
The icon sizes used varies for different components, and is dependent on
the display hardware.
.cdes
.HU "Table Of Icon Sizes Used"
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
Cde Component	HiRes,MedRes	LoRes(vga)
_
Front Panel	48\|\(mu\|48	32\|\(mu\|32
FP Subpanels	32\|\(mu\|32	24\|\(mu\|24
FP Inset FP	24\|\(mu\|24	16\|\(mu\|16
.sp 0.5v
WMgr ClientIcon	48\|\(mu\|48	32\|\(mu\|32
.sp 0.5v
File Mgr (Large)	32\|\(mu\|32	32\|\(mu\|32
File Mgr (Small)	16\|\(mu\|16	16\|\(mu\|16
.TE
.HU "Icon Colors"
These colors are used in Cde icons.
The dynamic colors use color cells from one of the color sets
in the user's color palette (except none, which requires no color cell).
.P
The eight icon color names are already included in the
.BR rgb.txt
file.
The eight icon gray color names should be added to each Cde vendor's
.BR rgb.txt .
.P
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
Color Name (rgb.txt)	Symbolic Name (<icon>.pm)
_
< dynamic >	none
< dynamic >	background
< dynamic >	selectColor
< dynamic >	topShadowColor
< dynamic >	bottomShadowColor
.sp 0.5v
black	iconColor1
white	iconColor2
red	iconColor3
green	iconColor4
blue	iconColor5
yellow	iconColor6
cyan	iconColor7
magenta	iconColor8
.sp 0.5v
iconGray1	iconGray1
iconGray2	iconGray2
iconGray3	iconGray3
iconGray4	iconGray4
iconGray5	iconGray5
iconGray6	iconGray6
iconGray7	iconGray7
iconGray8	iconGray8
.TE
.cdee
.cde .HU "Icon File Locations"
.xo .H 3 "Icon File Locations"
Cde has default locations where it
looks to find system and user icon files.
See
.cde the
.cde .Cm dtappintegrate 1
.cde manual page
.xo .cX appintegsvcs
for detailed information on where to install icons.
.cdes
See the
.Cm dtsearchpath 1
manual page for information on the icon lookup path.
.HU "Icon Usage In Cde"
Icons are used in a variety of ways within Cde.
Following are examples of some of the general areas in which users can use
icons to customize Cde configurations.
A system administrator can also do this on a system- or network-wide basis.
For more detailed information on any of these topics, see the documentation
for that component or configuration file.
.HU "Actions And Data Types"
An icon is associated with an action or data type using the
.Cn ICON
keyword
in the action or data type definition (located in
.B \&.dt
files).
If Cde naming conventions are followed, there is no
need to specify the path or icon suffix.
The size and format used is determined at runtime based on the system
configuration.
.HU Example
.Cs I
ACTION 	IslandPaintOpenDoc
{
    ICON           Ipaint
    WINDOW_TYPE    NO_STDIO
    EXEC_HOST      MyMachine
    EXEC_STRING    /usr/bin/IslandPaint %(File)Arg_1"File to open:"
}
.Ce
.HU "Client Icons"
An icon is associated with a client's iconified window through the
iconImage window manager resource as follows:
.Cs I
     \f3Dtwm*\f2clientName\f3*iconImage: IconFilename\f1
.Ce
.P
The icon may be a pixmap or bitmap format icon.
Some clients do not allow their default icon to be overridden.
.HU Example
.Cs I
Dtwm*IslandPaint*clientIcon: IslandPaint.bm
.Ce
.HU "Front Panel"
Icons can be displayed as controls in the front panel using the
.Cn ICON
keyword in control definitions.
Either pixmap- or bitmap-format icons
can be used.
For controls that are of type
.B icon
with
.Cn MONITOR_TYPE
set to
.B file
or
.BR mail ,
an alternate image can be specified using the
keyword
.Cn ALTERNATE_ICON .
The alternate icon is used when the file size
has grown.
Controls of type
.B busy
can also have an alternate icon, which
is cycled with the
.Cn ICON
to give a blinking effect.
For controls that allow a
.Cn PUSH_ACTION
or a
.Cn DROP_ACTION ,
push or drop animation can be defined using multiple
icons that create animation visual effects.
.HU Example
.Cs I
CONTROL DirectoryTerm
{
    TYPE             icon
    IMAGE            directoryTerm
    DROP_ACTION      f.action StartDirectoryTerm
    PUSH_ACTION      f.action StartDirectoryTerm
    PUSH_ANIMATION   DirAnimation
}
.sp 0.5v
ANIMATION DirAnimation
{
    ANIMATION	frame1 	300
    ANIMATION	frame2
    ...
}
.Ce
.HU Backdrops
The backdrop icons show up in a list in the Backdrop Dialog of the
Style Manager.
The user can select a single backdrop per workspace
to be used as the background for that workspace.
This is a visual
clue to help the user distinguish one workspace from another.
Backdrops
are available in both monochrome (bitmap) and color (pixmap) format
(all backdrops are unique; there are not bitmap and pixmap versions of
the same backdrop).
Although backdrops use the same file format as other
icons, they are not used like what is typically referred to as an
icon.
They would be more accurately described as an image.
The image is
repeated (tiled) to fill the entire background of a workspace.
This is
not typically done with an icon.
The Cde comes with a set of standard backdrops.
Some are monochrome and some are in color.
Custom backdrops can be added to system-installed
backdrops using the Style Manager and Window Manager
.B backdropDirectories
resource.
Backdrops can be either bitmap or pixmap format.
A system
administrator can add system-wide backdrops to the system-wide default
backdrop directory,
.BR /usr/dt/backdrops/C .
.HU Example
.Cs I
*backdropDirectories: /users/julie/.dt/icons/myBackdrops
.Ce
.HU "File Manager As Icon Browser"
The File Manager can be used as an icon browser.
In this mode, when you
change to a directory that contains icons (\c
.B \&.bm
or
.B \&.pm
files), each icon
is displayed next to the icon file name.
To enable icon browsing, copy the file
.B /usr/dt/contrib/types/IconBrowse.dt
into your
.B $HOME/.dt/types
directory.
Then reload the action database by executing the
.B ReloadActions
action.
For large icons, or on systems with little memory, this could cause delays
on some directories.
To disable icon browsing, remove personal copies of the
.B IconBrowse.dt
file and reload the action database again.
.HU "Design Recommendations"
In order to allow colorful icons while minimizing the number of colors used
by the Cde, it is recommended that the colors used be
limited to those available in the Icon Editor.
These include the dynamic OSF/Motif widget colors, as well as a set of
static colors and static gray colors.
The dynamic colors include foreground, background, top shadow,
bottom shadow, select and a transparent color.
The static colors include
black, white, red, blue, green, yellow, magenta and cyan.
The static gray
colors are eight varying shades of gray, from nearly black to nearly
white.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtpmfile (4),
.BR dtbmfile (4),
.Cm dticon 1,
.BR dtfpfile (4),
.BR dtdtfile (4),
.BR dtactionfile (4),
.BR dtdtsfile  (4),
.Cm dtstyle 1,
.BR dtenvvar (5),
.Fn xmgeticonfilename 3.
.cdee
