.\" Add some macros to assist in X/Open spec conversion:
.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.de Lc
.\" version of .LI that emboldens its argument
.TP \\n()Jn
\s-1\f3\\$1\f1\s+1
..
.TH dticonfile 4 "23 May, 1994"
.BH "23 May, 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dticonfile \(mi icon conventions for \s-1CDE\s+1 icons
.SH SYNOPSIS
The conventions used within the \s-1CDE\s+1 for icon
sizes and naming, location, usage, and design are specified.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Both X Pixmap and X Bitmap icon file formats are used within the \s-1CDE\s+1.
X Pixmap (XPM) icons are multi-color images 
based on the XPM format developed by Arnaud Le Hors.
A pixmap file is 
an ascii file which can be read and modified by hand, in addition to the 
use of color pixmap editors (like the \s-1CDE\s+1 Icon Editor).
X Bitmap (XBM) 
icons are monochrome (two-color) images based on the official X11 Bitmap 
File Format.
Bitmap files are ascii files.
However, the data is simply 
a binary representation of the bitmap, and as such is not easily read or
modified by hand.
XBM icons can be created and modified by the \s-1CDE\s+1 Icon 
Editor.
The icon editor has the ability to write out any icon in either
the XPM or XBM file format.
For a more detailed description of these
file formats and the icon editor, see the
.BR dtbmfile (4),
.BR dtpmfile (4) 
and
.BR dticon (1)
man pages.
.SS "FILE NAMING"
\s-1CDE\s+1 icon file names are typically in one of the 
following forms:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.LI \f2basename.format\fP
.br
.LI \f2basename.size.format\f1
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
Basename is the \f2logical\fP name of the icon.  
The basename for icons that are installed with \s-1CDE\s+1 all begin with 
either \f2Dt\f1 or \f2Fp\f1.
\f2Dt\f1 is the default prefix for all
\s-1CDE\s+1 icons.
The \f2Fp\f1 prefix is used for icons that appear in the 
front panel when an icon other than the default \f2Dt\f1 icon is desired.
In this case, the base name is the same, except for the prefix.
.PP
The format is
.I .pm
for a pixmap file and
.I .bm
for a bitmap file.  
Size is a single letter
.I l
for large,
.I m
for medium,
.I s
for small, or
.I t
for tiny.
Many of the
.I logical
icons are provided in multiple sizes for both color and monochrome.
This allows the \s-1CDE\s+1 to use the optimal color and size 
combination for the specific task and configuration the user is running.
Many bitmap icons have a
.I mask
associated with the icon.
These are named \f2 basename.size\f3_m\f2.format\f1.
All icons are named so that the longest
file name associated with that icon will be 14 characters or less, so that it
can be used on a short file name system.
The longest file name can be
described as \f2 Dt\f3xxxxx\f2_m.l.pm\f1,
where 
.B xxxx
is the
.I logical
icon name.
.SS Example
This is an example of icon files that might be associated with the 
icon \f2foo\f1.
The single
.I logical
icon \f2foo\f1 contains tiny, 
small, medium, and large bitmap icons (with mask) and pixmap icons.
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 8
.LI \f3Dtfoo.t.pm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.t.bm\fP					
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.t_m.bm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.s.pm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.s.bm\fP					
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.s_m.bm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.m.pm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.m.bm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.m_m.bm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.l.pm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.l.bm\fP
.br
.LI \f3Dtfoo.l_m.bm\fP
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SS "ICON SIZES"
For the default \s-1CDE\s+1 icons, uniform icon sizes 
have been adopted.
Icons are of the following sizes, and are 
named with the corresponding size suffix.
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI Large
48x48 icon with .l suffix
.LI Medium
32x32 icon with .m suffix
.LI Small
24x24 icon with .s suffix
.LI Tiny
16x16 icon with .t suffix
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The icon sizes used varies for different components, and is dependent upon
the display hardware.
.SS "Table Of Icon Sizes Used"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3	cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .
\s-1CDE\s+1 Component	HiRes,MedRes	LoRes(vga)
_
Front Panel	48x48	32x32
FP Subpanels	32x32	24x24
FP Inset FP	24x24	16x16

WMgr ClientIcon	48x48	32x32

File Mgr (Large)	32x32	32x32
File Mgr (Small)	16x16	16x16
.TE
.SS "ICON COLORS"
These colors are used in \s-1CDE\s+1 icons.
The dynamic colors use color cells from one of the color sets
in the user's color palette (except none, which requires no color cell).  
.PP
.cdes
The eight icon color names are already included in the
.BR rgb.txt 
file.
The eight icon gray color names should be added to each \s-1CDE\s+1 vendor's
.BR rgb.txt .
We should also consider making a request for the gray
logical colors to be included in the default
.BR rgb.txt
from MIT .
.cdee
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c)	lf3w(2c) .

Color Name (rgb.txt)	Symbolic Name (<icon>.pm)
_
< dynamic >	none
< dynamic >	background
< dynamic >	selectColor
< dynamic >	topShadowColor
< dynamic >	bottomShadowColor

black	iconColor1
white	iconColor2
red	iconColor3
green	iconColor4
blue	iconColor5
yellow	iconColor6
cyan	iconColor7
magenta	iconColor8

iconGray1	iconGray1
iconGray2	iconGray2
iconGray3	iconGray3
iconGray4	iconGray4
iconGray5	iconGray5
iconGray6	iconGray6
iconGray7	iconGray7
iconGray8	iconGray8
.TE
.PP
\f2???? Note: the information enclosed between the "ICON FILE LOCATIONS" and
"SEE ALSO" headings,
.na
does not go to x/open\fP
.SH "ICON FILE LOCATIONS"
The \s-1CDE\s+1 has default locations where it
looks to find system and user icon files.
See the \f2dtsearchpath(1)\f1 man page for detailed information on the
icon lookup path.
.SH "ICON USAGE IN \s-1CDE\s+1"
Icons are used in a variety of ways within the \s-1CDE\s+1.
Below are some of the general areas in which a user can use icons to 
customize his or her personal \s-1CDE\s+1 configuration.
A system administrator can also do this on a system or network wide basis.
For more detailed information on any of these topics, see the documentation
for that component and/or configuration file.
.SS "Actions And Data Types"
An icon is associated with an action or data type using the ICON keyword 
in the action or data type definition (located in .dt files).
If you follow \s-1CDE\s+1 naming conventions, you do not 
need to specify the path or icon suffix.
The size and format used will 
be determined at run-time based on the system configuration.
.SS Example
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
ACTION 	IslandPaintOpenDoc
{
    ICON           Ipaint
    WINDOW_TYPE    NO_STDIO
    EXEC_HOST      MyMachine
    EXEC_STRING    /usr/bin/IslandPaint %(File)Arg_1"File to open:"
}
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SS "Client Icons"
An icon is associated with a client's iconified window through the 
iconImage window manager resource as follows: 
.br
     Dtwm*\f2clientName\f1*iconImage: IconFilename 
.br
The icon may be a pixmap or bitmap format icon.
Some clients do not allow their default icon to be overridden.
.SS Example
.PP
.sp -1
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
Dtwm*IslandPaint*clientIcon: IslandPaint.bm
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.SS "Front Panel"
Icons can be displayed as controls in the front panel using the ICON 
keyword in control definitions.
Either pixmap or bitmap format icons 
can be used.
For controls which are of type icon with
.BR \s-1MONITOR_TYPE\s+1
set to file or mail, an alternate image can be specified using the 
keyword
.BR \s-1ALTERNATE_ICON\s+1 .
The alternate icon is used when the file size 
has grown.
Controls of type busy can also have an alternate icon, which 
is used when new mail is received.
For controls which allow a
.BR \s-1PUSH_ACTION\s+1
or a
.BR \s-1DROP_ACTION\s+1 ,
push or drop animation can be defined using multiple 
icons that create animation visual effects.
.SS Example
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
CONTROL DirectoryTerm
{
    TYPE             icon
    IMAGE            directoryTerm
    DROP_ACTION      f.action StartDirectoryTerm
    PUSH_ACTION      f.action StartDirectoryTerm
    PUSH_ANIMATION   DirAnimation
}

ANIMATION DirAnimation
{
    ANIMATION	frame1 	300
    ANIMATION	frame2	
    ...
}
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SS Backdrops
The backdrop icons show up in a list in the Backdrop Dialog of the 
Style Manager.
The user can select a single backdrop per workspace, 
to be used as the background for that workspace.
This is a visual 
clue to help the user distinguish one workspace from another.
Backdrops 
are available in both monochrome (bitmap) and color (pixmap) format 
(all backdrops are unique; there are not bitmap and pixmap versions of 
the same backdrop).
Although backdrops use the same file format as other 
icons, they are not used like what is typically refer to as an
.IR icon .
They would be more accurately described as an
.IR image .
The image is 
repeated (tiled) to fill the entire background of a workspace.
This is 
not typically done with an icon.
The \s-1CDE\s+1 comes with a set of standard backdrops.  Some are monochrome 
and some are in color.
Custom backdrops can be added to system installed 
backdrops using the Style Manager and Window Manager backdropDirectories 
resource.
Backdrops can be either bitmap or pixmap format.
A system 
administrator can add system-wide backdrops to the system-wide default
backdrop directory,
.BR /usr/dt/backdrops/C .
.SS Example
.PP
.sp -1
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
*backdropDirectories: /users/julie/.dt/icons/myBackdrops
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.SS "File Manager As Icon Browser"
The File Manager can be used as an icon browser.
In this mode, when you 
change to a directory that contains icons (.bm or .pm files), each icon 
is displayed next to the icon file name.  
To enable icon browsing, copy the file
.B /usr/dt/contrib/types/IconBrowse.dt
into your
.BR HOME.dt/types/
directory .
Then reload the action database by executing the
.B ReloadActions
action. 
For large icons, or on systems with little memory, this could cause delays 
on some directories.
To disable icon browsing, remove your personal copy 
of the
.B IconBrowse.dt
file and reload the action database again.
.SS "DESIGN RECOMMENDATIONS"
In order to allow colorful icons while minimizing the number of colors used 
by the \s-1CDE\s+1, it is recommended that the colors used be 
limited to those available in the Icon Editor.
These include the
.I dynamic"
OSF/Motif widget colors, as well as a set of static color and static gray 
colors.
The dynamic colors include foreground, background, top shadow, 
bottom shadow, select and a transparent color.
The static colors include 
black, white, red, blue, green, yellow, magenta and cyan.
The static gray 
colors are simply eight varying shades of gray, from nearly black to nearly 
white.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR dtpmfile (4),
.BR dtbmfile (4),
.BR dtsearchpath (1),
.BR dticon (1),
.BR dtfpfile (4),
.BR dtdtfile (4),
.BR dtactionfile (4),
.BR dtdtsfile  (4),
.BR dtstyle (1),
.BR dtenvvar (5),
.BR xmgeticonfilename (3)
.br
\f2???? What kind of listing is this last one ????

