.TH dtpmfile 4 "23 May, 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtpmfile \- format of X Pixmap (XPM) format desktop icon files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
    /* XPM */
    static char * \f2icon_name\f1[] = {
    "\f2width height num_colors chars_per_pixel [x_hot y_hot]\f1",
    "\f2char {key color}+\f1",
    ...
    " \f2pixels\f1 ",
    ...
    };
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pixmap icons are multi-color images based on the XPM (X PixMap) format 
developed by Arnaud Le Hors.
A pixmap file is an ASCII file, which can 
be read and modified by hand, in addition to the use of color pixmap 
editors (like the Icon Editor).
The XPM format was designed specifically 
for small "icon" images.
XPM files can be included directly in C source 
code, so the file data is in the form of a pixmap structure variable.
A pixmap file can be broken down into three main components: generic 
pixmap information, pixmap colors, and the actual pixmap data.  
.P
The generic pixmap file contains the following information:
.VL
.LI \(bu
pixmap name
.LI \(bu
pixmap width
.LI \(bu
pixmap height
.LI \(bu
number of colors used in pixmap
.LI \(bu
number of characters per pixel
.LI \(bu
x hot-spot and y hot-spot (optional)
.LE
.P
Each color used in the pixmap is defined by a string containing the 
following information:
.VL
.LI \(bu
character(s) used to represent this color in pixmap data
.LI \(bu
symbolic name for this color
.LI \(bu
mono visual to use for this color (that is, black/white)
.LI \(bu
color visual by name ("red") or RGB value ("#9696c8c8afaf")
.LI \(bu
gray scale visuals (most CDE icons do not include gray scale data)
.LE
.P
The data itself is simply strings of symbols representing colors. 
There is one string per column of the pixmap, and this data will 
resemble the actual icon.
.P
More detailed information on the XPM library API and file format is
available with the XPM package from Arnaud Le Hors.
.P
For documentation on the XPM Library, questions, suggestions, etc., 
send electronic mail to
.BR lehors@sophia.inria.fr .
There is an email 
group to discuss XPM issues that you can subscribe to by writing to 
xpm-talk-request@sophia.inria.fr.
The latest release, along with an archive 
of the mailing list, is available by anonymous ftp on
.B avahi.inria.fr
(138.96.24.30) or
.B export.lcs.mit.edu
(18.30.0.238).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is a pixmap that can be used to represent an executable 
file.  The icon has a 3-D border around it and contains a lightning bolt.
.Cs I
static char ** execute = {
"22 22 7 1",
"R s iconGray1 m white c #e1e1e1e1e1e1",
"B s iconGray3 m white c #afafafafafaf",
"~ s iconColor6 m white c yellow",
"Y s iconColor1 m black c black",
"X s iconGray2 m white c #c8c8c8c8c8c8",
"+ s iconGray7 m black c #4b4b4b4b4b4b",
"@ s iconGray5 m black c #7d7d7d7d7d7d",
"RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRBRR",
"RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR~~BRRY",
"RRBBBBBBBBBBBBX~~YBBYY",
"RRBBBBBBBBBBBB~~YBBBYY",
"RRBBBBBBBBBB~~~YBBBBYY",
"RRBBBBBBBBX~~~YBBBBBYY",
"RRBBBBBBBB~~~YBBBBBBYY",
"RRBBBBBBX~~~~~~~~XYBYY",
"RRBBBBX~~~~~~~~XYYBBYY",
"RRBBBBBYYYY~~~XYBBBBYY",
"RRBBBBBBX~~~XYYBBBBBYY",
"RRBBBBBX~~XYYBBBBBBBYY",
"RRBBBX~~~YYYBBBBBBBBYY",
"RRBB~~~~~~~~~~~XYBBBYY",
"RRX~~~~~~~~~~X+YBBBBYY",
"RRBYYYY~~~~X+YBBBBBBYY",
"RRBBBBB~~B@YBBBBBBBBYY",
"RRBBBB~X@YYBBBBBBBBBYY",
"RRBBB~B+YBBBBBBBBBBBYY",
"RRBB~+YBBBBBBBBBBBBBYY",
"RRY~YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY",
"RYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY"};
.Ce
.SH REQUIRED XPM COPYRIGHT 
/*
 * Copyright 1990-92 GROUPE BULL
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software 
 * and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby 
 * granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all 
 * copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission 
 * notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of 
 * GROUPE BULL not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining 
 * to distribution of the software without specific, written prior 
 * permission.  GROUPE BULL makes no representations about the
 * suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided 
 * "as is" without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * GROUPE BULL disclaims all warranties with regard to this software,
 * including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness,
 * in no event shall GROUPE BULL be liable for any special,
 * indirect or consequential damages or any damages
 * whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits,
 * whether in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious
 * action, arising out of or in connection with the use 
 * or performance of this software.
 *
 */
Arnaud LE HORS      BULL Research FRANCE -- Koala Project 
                    (XPM - X PixMap format version 2 & 3)
    Internet:       lehors@sophia.inria.fr
Surface Mail:       Arnaud LE HORS, INRIA - Sophia Antipolis, 
                    2004, route des Lucioles, 06565 Valbonne Cedex -- FRANCE
 Voice phone:       (33) 93.65.77.71, Fax: (33) 93 65 77 66, Telex: 97 00 50 F
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
For a description of icon location, usage, design, etc. within the
CDE, refer to
.BR dticonfile (4).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR X11 Window System documentation ,
.BR dticonfile (4),
.BR dticon (1),
.BR dtbmfile (4).



