.TH dtsdlfile 4 "11 Jan 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtsdlfile \- CDE runtime help volume files
.SH DESCRIPTION
Semantic Delivery Language (sdl) files are used for presenting online 
information or application specific contextual help information in CDE.
They
are refered to as Help Volumes, and contain the equivalent of a runtime 
version of the original, authored help information.
Help Volumes can be
viewed via one of the two CDE help dialog widgets provided as part of the CDE
Development Environment.
.HU "File Generation"
Refer to the
.Cm dthelptag 1
man page for detailed information on the creation of \f3*.sdl\f1 files within CDE.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The CDE Help system uses two environment variables for locating 
Help volumes and Family files  
within the desktop environment:
.VL 15
.LI \f2DTHELPSEARCHPATH\f1
\f2System\f1 search path environment variable for locating
Help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.LI \f2DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH\f1
\f2Users\f1 search path environment variable for locating user
specific Help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.LE
.P
The environment variables contain colon-separated lists of directory paths.
Each directory path can contain environment variable names as well as
special field descriptors that are expanded at runtime.
.P
Field descriptors consist of a \f3%\f1
followed by a single character.
Field descriptors and their substitution values are:
.VL 15
.LI \f3%H\f1
This value is replaced with the current volume or Family name being searched 
for.
.LI \f3%L\f1
Replaced with the current value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.LI \f3%%\f1
Replaced with a single \f3%\f1.
.LE
.P
The default value for
.I DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH
is:
.P
\f3
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H.sdl:
.br 
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H.hv:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl:
.br 
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv\f1
.P
The
.I DTHELPUSERSEARCH
is first searched for the requested volume.
If
the volume is not found, the
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
value is searched.
.P
The default value for
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
path is:
.P
\f3
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv\f1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtCreateHelpDialog 3,
.Fn DtCreateQuickHelpDialog 3,
.Cm dthelptag 1,
\f2CDE Help System Author's and Programmer's Guide\f1



