.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" **
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtsdlfile 4 "11 Jan 1994"
.BH "11 Jan 1994"
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- NAME
.SH NAME
dtsdlfile \- Cde runtime help volume files
.\"--- --------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Semantic Delivery Language (sdl) files are used for presenting online 
information or application specific contextual help information in Cde. They
are refered to as Help Volumes, and contain the equivalent of a runtime 
version of the original authored help information.  Help Volumes can be
viewed via one of the two Cde help dialog widgets provided as part of the Cde
Development Environment.
.SS FILE FORMAT
See dtsdldtd(4)
.SS FILE GENERATION
Refer to the
.IR dthelptag(1)
man page for detailed information on the creation of *.sdl files within Cde.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The Cde help system utilizes two environment variables for locating 
help volumes and family files within the desktop environment:
.TP 10
.SM \fBDTHELPSEARCHPATH\fP
\fISystem\fP search path environment variable for locating
help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.TP 10
.SM \fBDTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH\fP
\fIUsers\fP search path environment variable for locating user
specific help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.P
.sp 1
The environment variables  contain colon-separated lists of directory paths.
Each directory path can contain both environment variable names as well as
special field descriptors that are expanded at runtime via each help component
that uses these environment variables.
.P
Field descriptors consist of a
.B %
followed by a single character.
Field descriptors and their substitution values are:
.RS
.TP 8
.B %H
This value is replaced with the current volume or family name being searched 
for.
.PD 0
.TP
.B %L
Replaced with the current value of the $LANG environment variable.
.SM .
.TP
.B %%
Replaced with a single
.BR % .
.PD
.RE
.sp1
The default value for DTHELPUSERSEARCH path is: NULL.
.sp1
If the DTHELPUSERSEARCH is set, its searched for the requested volume. If
the volume is not found, the DTHELPSEARCHPATH value is searched.
.P
The default value for DTHELPSEARCHPATH path is:
.ta li
\fB
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.fi
\fP
.sp 1
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- SEE ALSO
.\"---
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DtCreateHelpDialog (3),
.BR DtCreateQuickHelpDialog (3),
.BR dtsdldtd (1)
