.\"---  Man page for the "dtspcdenv" file.
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtspcdenv 4M "12 January 1994"
.BH "12 January -1994"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtspcdenv \- Environment Variable File for the CDE Subprocess Control Service
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CDE Subprocess Control service provides the
ability for a process running on one system to
invoke another process on a different system.
By default, the environment variables of the
parent process are passed unmodified to the
child process (on the remote host), 
however there are some environment
variables that are given special handling.  In
addition, the user or system administrator can
specify environment variables that should be
modified when they are passed to the child process.
.P
The system-wide environment files are: 
.P
.RS 
/etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv
.P
/usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv
.RE
.TP
and the user-specific environment file is:
.P
.RS
$HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv
.RE
.P
The file /usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv is created
when CDE is installed.  This file may be overwritten
by subsequent CDE installations.  Consequently, local
variable definitions should be placed in the file
/etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv because this file is not
overwritten during installation.
.P
The environment variable files are evaluated in the following order:
.P
.RS
1. local host:  /usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv
.P
2. local host:  /etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv
.P
3. local host:  $HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv
.P
4. remote host: /usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv
.P
5. remote host: /etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv
.P
6. remote host: $HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv
.RE
.P
The precedence occurs in the reverse order of
evaluation.  Thus, variables in the remote
host's $HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv file have the highest
precedence and variables in the local host's
/etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv file have the lowest
precedence.
In this context, the local host is the
host where a CDE client is running and
the remote host is the host where a remote
process will be started (on behalf of
the local client).
.P
Lines beginning with a "#" are considered 
comments and are not processed.
.P
The syntax for a non-commented line is:
.P
.RS 
VAR_NAME=some_value
.RE
.P
where "VAR_NAME" is the name of an 
environment variable and "some_value"
is the value assigned to the variable.
.P
If "some_value" contains a variable reference,
the reference will be replaced by the variable's
value.  For example, if a CDE client has the
following definition in its environment:
.P
.RS
PATH=/bin:/sbin:/usr/local/bin
.RE
.P
and the following definition occurs in one of the
environment files:
.P
.RS
PATH=/opt/foo/bin:$PATH
.RE
.P
then before the remote process is executed, "PATH"
will be expanded to:
.P
.RS
PATH=/opt/foo/bin:/bin:/sbin:/usr/local/bin
.RE
.P
The environment variable names may consist of
letters, digits or underscores and may be
enclosed in curly braces.
.P
The environment variable files may contain
"unset <variable_name>" commands to prevent 
an environment variable from being propagated 
to the remote process.
For example, the following line would 
prevent the variable "LIB_PATH" from being
propagated to the remote process:
.P
.RS 
unset LIB_PATH
.RE
.P
.\"---
.\"--- Environment variables
.\"---
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Dtspcd treats the following variables specially: 
.P
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B DISPLAY
If DISPLAY is set to "unix:<n>", "local:<n>" or ":<n>"
(where <n> is the screen number), then before the
remote process is executed, 
DISPLAY is changed to the name of the local host and
the screen number is preserved.
.P
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B HOME
Before the remote process is executed, HOME is set 
to the value of the user's home directory in
the password file on the remote host.
.P
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B SHELL
If SHELL is not in the parent processes environment,
SHELL is set to the value of the user's shell in
the password file on the remote host.
.P
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B PWD
The variable PWD is not propagated to
the remote host.
.PD
.P
Note that the above variables will be
overridden by their corresponding definitions 
in an environment file.
.\"---
.\"--- Examples
.\"---
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following definition sets the variable
"FOO_BIN_PATH" to the value "/var/foo/bin":
.P
.RS 
FOO_BIN_PATH=/var/foo/bin
.RE
.P
.\"---
.\"--- Related files
.\"---
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /usr/dt/config/dtspcdenv
System-wide, installed environment variable definitions 
used when a process is executed
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /etc/dt/config/dtspcdenv
System-wide, locally defined environment variable definitions 
used when a process is executed
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B $HOME/.dt/dtspcdenv
User-specific environment variable definitions used 
when a process is executed
.\"---
.\"--- Related man pages
.\"---
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtspcd (1).
