...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989,1990,1992,1993 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
.de EX                \"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH dtwmrc 4 
.ds )H Common Desktop Environment 
.ds ]W Version 1.0: April 1994
.SH NAME
\fIdtwmrc\fP \- The dtwm Window Manager Resource Description File
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIdtwmrc\fP
is a supplementary resource file that controls much of the behavior of
the Common Desktop Environment window manager \fIdtwm\fP. It contains
descriptions of resources that cannot easily be written using standard X
Window System, Version 11 resource syntax. 
The resource description file contains entries that are 
referred to by X resources in defaults files (e.g.
\fI/usr/dt/app-defaults/$LANG/Dtwm\fP) or in the
RESOURCE_MANAGER property on the root window.
.P
For example, the resource description file enables you to specify different
types of window menus. However, an X resource is used to
specify which of these window menus the \fIdtwm\fP should
use for a particular window.
.P
The specifications of the resource description file supported by the dtwm
workspace manager are a strict superset of the specifications supported by
the OSF Motif Window Manager (\fImwm 1.2.3\fP).  In other
words, the \fIsystem.mwmrc\fP or \fI$HOME/.mwmrc\fP
file that you've used for \fImwm\fP is easily made
usable by \fIdtwm\fP.
.P
To merge your personal mwm resource specifications into dtwm:
.IP "\(bu" 1.75
Copy either \fI/etc/dt/config/$LANG/sys.dtwmrc\fP or 
\fI/usr/dt/config/$LANG/sys.dtwmrc\fP to \fI$HOME/dtwmrc\fP.
.IP "\(bu" 1.75
Use a text editor to move menu definitions, key bindings, and button
bindings from your \fI.mwmrc\fP file to your dtwmrc file. To merge
your key and button bindings, you'll need to augment the key and button
bindings that are referenced by \fIdtwm\fP by default. To replace the key or 
button bindings, you'll also need to modify the appropriate \fIdtwm\fP
resources (see \fIkeyBindings\fP and \fIbuttonBindings\fP).
.IP "\(bu" 1.75
Restart \fIdtwm\fP
.P
.SS Location
The workspace manager searches for one of the following 
\fIresource description files\fP, where $LANG is the value
of the language environment on a per-user basis:
.sp 1
 $HOME/.dt/$LANG/dtwmrc
 $HOME/.dt/dtwmrc
 /etc/dt/config/$LANG/sys.dtwmrc
 /etc/dt/config/sys.dtwmrc
 /usr/dt/config/$LANG/sys.dtwmrc
 /usr/dt/config/sys.dtwmrc
.sp 1
.P
The first file found is the first used.
.P
If none is found, then a set of \fIbuilt-in\fP specifications
is used.  
.P
A particular \fIresource description file\fP
can be selected using the \fIconfigFile\fP resource.
.P
The following shows how a different resource description file can
be specified from the command line:
.P
.RS
.TS
tab(;);
l l .
;/usr/dt/bin/dtwm -xrm "Dtwm*configFile: mydtwmrc"
.TE
.RE
.SS "Resource Types"
.sp 1
The following types of resources can be described in the dtwm
resource description file:
.TP 15
.B Buttons
Workspace manager functions can be bound (associated) with button events.
.TP 15
.B Keys
Workspace manager functions can be bound (associated) with key press events.
.TP 15
.B Menus
Menu panes can be used for the window menu and other menus posted
with key bindings and button bindings.
.sp 1
.SH "\fBDTWM RESOURCE DESCRIPTION FILE SYNTAX\fP"
The dtwm resource description file
is a standard text file that contains items
of information separated by blanks, tabs, and new lines characters.
Blank lines are ignored.
Items or characters can be quoted to avoid special interpretation
(e.g., the comment character can be quoted to prevent it from being
interpreted as the comment character).
A quoted item can be contained in double quotes (\fI"\fP).
.P
Single characters can be quoted by preceding them by the back-slash
character (\fI\\\fP), except for workspace names, which
may contain no back-slash characters. If a line ends with a back-slash,
the next line is considered a continuation of that line.
.P
All text from an unquoted \fI#\fP to the end of the line is regarded 
as a comment and is not interpreted as part of a resource description.
If \fI!\fP is the first character in a line, the line is regarded as a comment.
.SS "Workspace Manager Functions"
Workspace manager functions can be accessed with button and key bindings, and
with workspace manager menus.
Functions are indicated as part of the specifications for button and key
binding sets, and menu panes.
The function specification has the following syntax:

.TS
tab(~), center;
ll.
\fBfunction\fP =~\fBfunction_name\fP [\fBfunction_args\fP]
\fBfunction_name\fP =~\fBworkspace manager function\fP
\fBfunction_args\fP =~{\fBquoted_item\fP | \fBunquoted_item\fP}
.TE

The following functions are supported.
If a function is specified that isn't one of the supported functions then it
is interpreted by dtwm as \fIf.nop\fP.
.sp 1
.RS
.IP \fIf.action\fP
This function causes the specified \fIaction\fP to be invoked
by means of the message server.
.IP \fIf.beep\fP
This function causes a beep.
.IP "\fIf.circle_down\fP [\fIicon\fP | \fIwindow\fP]"
This function causes the window or icon that is on the top of the window
stack to be put on the bottom of the window stack (so that it is no
longer obscuring any other window or icon).
This function affects only those windows and icons
that are obscuring other windows and icons,
or that are obscured by other windows and icons.
Secondary windows (i.e. transient windows) are restacked with their
associated primary window.
Secondary windows always stay on top of the associated primary window and
there can be no other primary windows between the secondary windows and
their primary window.  If an \fIicon\fP function argument is specified, then
the function applies only to icons.
If a \fIwindow\fP function argument is specified then the function applies
only to windows.
.IP "\fIf.circle_up\fP [\fIicon\fP | \fIwindow\fP]"
This function raises the window or icon on the bottom of the window stack
(so that it is not obscured by any other windows).
This function affects only those windows and icons
that are obscuring other windows and icons,
or that are obscured by other windows and icons.
Secondary windows (i.e. transient windows) are restacked with their
associated primary window.
If an \fIicon\fP function argument is specified then the
function applies only to icons.
If an \fIwindow\fP function argument is specified then the function applies
only to windows.
.IP "\fIf.create_workspace\fP"
This function creates a new workspace. The new workspace name is
generated automatically and is of the form \fIws_\fP\fBn\fP where
\fBn\fP is an integer. 
.IP "\fIf.delete_workspace\fP"
This function deletes the current workspace. Windows that reside only in
this workspace will be moved to the next workspace. If the last
workspace is being deleted, then windows will be moved to the first
workspace.
.IP "\fIf.exec\fP \fBcommand\fP (or \fI!\fP \fBcommand\fP)"
This function causes \fIcommand\fP to be executed (using the
value of the \fI$MWMSHELL\fP or \fI$SHELL\fP environment variable if set,
otherwise \fI/usr/bin/sh\fP).
The \fI!\fP notation can be used in place of the \fIf.exec\fP function
name.
.IP "\fIf.focus_color\fP"
This function sets the colormap focus to a client window.
If this function is done in a root context, then the default colormap
(setup by the \fIX Window System\fP for the screen where dtwm is running)
is installed and there is no specific client window colormap focus.
This function is treated as \fIf.nop\fP if \fIcolormapFocusPolicy\fP is not
explicit.
.IP "\fIf.focus_key\fP"
This function sets the keyboard input focus to a client window or icon.
This function is treated as \fIf.nop\fP if \fIkeyboardFocusPolicy\fP is not
explicit or the function is executed in a root context.
.IP "\fIf.goto_workspace\fP \fBworkspace\fP"
This function causes the workspace manager to switch to the
workspace named by \fBworkspace\fP. If no workspace exists by 
the specified name, then no action occurs. Note that adding and deleting
workspaces dynamically and affect this function.
.IP "\fIf.help\fP [\fBtopic\fP [\fBvolume\fP]]"
This function displays help on the
specified \fBtopic\fP and \fBvolume\fP.  If no \fBvolume\fP is given,
then the workspace manager volume is assumed. If no \fBtopic\fP 
is given, then help on the front panel is shown.
.IP "\fIf.help_mode\fP"
This function causes the workspace manager to enter into help mode. 
In help mode, the pointer changes shape to indicate that the window
manager is waiting for you to select a front panel control. Any help
defined for the control is then shown in a help window.
.IP "\fIf.kill\fP"
This function is used to close application windows. The actual
processing that occurs depends on the protocols that the application
observes. The application lists the protocols it observes in the
WM_PROTOCOLS property on its top level window.
.in 1.7i
.sp 1
If the application observes the WM_DELETE_WINDOW protocol, it is sent
a message that requests the window be deleted.
.sp 1
If the application observes both WM_DELETE_WINDOW and
WM_SAVE_YOURSELF, it is sent one message requesting the window be
deleted and another message advising it to save its state.
.sp 1
If the application observes only the WM_SAVE_YOURSELF protocol,
it is sent a message advising it to save its state. After a delay
(specified by the resource \fIquitTimeout\fP),
the application's connection to the X server is terminated.
.sp 1
If the application observes neither of these protocols, its 
connection to the X server is terminated.
.in
.IP "\fIf.lower\fP\ [\fI\-\fP\fBclient\fP | \fIwithin\fP\ | \fIfreeFamily\fP]"
This function lowers a primary window to the bottom of the global window
stack (where it obscures no other window) and lowers the secondary window
(transient window or dialog box) within the client family.  The
arguments to this function are mutually exclusive.
.sp 1
The \fBclient\fP argument indicates the name or class of a client to
lower.  The name or class of a client appears in the WM_CLASS property 
on the client's top-level window.
If the \fBclient\fP argument is not specified, the context that the
function was invoked in indicates the window or icon to lower.
.sp 1
Specifying \fIwithin\fP lowers the secondary window within the family
(staying above the parent) but does not lower the client family in the
global window stack.
.sp 1
Specifying \fIfreeFamily\fP lowers the window to the bottom of the
global windows stack from its local family stack. 
.IP "\fIf.marquee_selection\fP"
This function is only useful in conjunction with the Common Desktop
Environment file manager (see \fIdtfile(1)\fP).  It enables selection of
file manager objects that have been placed on the root window. It
must be bound to a button when used.
.IP "\fIf.maximize\fP"
This function causes a client window to be displayed with its maximum
size. Refer to the \fImaximumClientSize\fP, \fImaximumMaximumSize\fP,
and \fIlimitResize\fP resources in \fIdtwm(1)\fP.
.IP "\fIf.menu\fP \fBmenu_name\fP"
This function associates a cascading (pull-right) menu 
with a menu pane entry or a menu with a button or key binding.
The \fBmenu_name\fP function argument identifies the menu to be used.
.IP "\fIf.minimize\fP"
This function causes a client window to be minimized (iconified).
When a window is minimized with no icon box in use, and if the
\fIlowerOnIconify\fP resource has the value True (the default), the icon is
placed on the bottom of the window
stack (such that it obscures no other window).  If an icon box is used,
then the client's icon changes to its iconified form inside the icon box.
Secondary windows (i.e. transient windows) are minimized with their
associated primary window.
There is only one icon for a primary window and all its secondary windows.
.IP "\fIf.move\fP"
This function initiates an interactive move of a client window.
.IP "\fIf.next_cmap\fP"
This function installs the next colormap in the list of colormaps for
the window with the colormap focus.
.IP "\fIf.next_key\fP [\fIicon\fP | \fIwindow\fP | \fItransient\fP]"
This function sets the keyboard input focus to the next window/icon in the set
of windows/icons managed by the workspace manager 
(the ordering of this set is based on the stacking of windows on the screen).
This function is treated as \fIf.nop\fP if \fIkeyboardFocusPolicy\fP is not
explicit.
The keyboard input focus is only moved to windows that do not have an
associated secondary window that is application modal.
If the \fItransient\fP argument is specified, then transient (secondary)
windows are traversed (otherwise, if only \fIwindow\fP is specified,
traversal is done only to the last focused window in a transient
group).
If an \fIicon\fP function argument is specified, then the
function applies only to icons.
If a \fIwindow\fP function argument is specified, then the function applies
only to windows.
.IP "\fIf.next_workspace\fP"
This function causes the workspace manager to switch to
the next workspace. If the last workspace is currently active, then this
function will switch to the first workspace.
.IP "\fIf.nop\fP"
This function does nothing.
.IP "\fIf.normalize\fP"
This function causes a client window to be displayed with its normal size.
Secondary windows (i.e. transient windows) are placed in their normal state
along with their associated primary window. 
.IP "\fIf.normalize_and_raise\fP"
This function causes a client window to be displayed with its normal size 
and raised to the top of the window stack.
Secondary windows (i.e. transient windows) are placed in their normal state
along with their associated primary window. 
.IP "\fIf.occupy_all\fP"
This function causes the associated window to be placed in
all workspaces.
.IP "\fIf.pack_icons\fP"
This function is used to relayout icons 
(based on the layout policy being used)
on the root window or in the icon box.
In general this causes icons to be "packed" into the icon grid.
.IP "\fIf.pass_keys\fP"
This function is used to enable/disable (toggle) processing of key bindings
for workspace manager functions.  When it disables key binding processing all
keys are passed on to the window with
the keyboard input focus and no workspace manager functions are invoked.
If the \fIf.pass_keys\fP function is invoked with a key binding to
disable key binding processing the
same key binding can be used to enable key binding processing. 
.IP "\fIf.post_wmenu\fP"
This function is used to post the window menu.  If a key is used to post
the window menu and a window menu button is present, the window menu is
automatically
placed with its top-left corner at the bottom-left corner of the
window menu button for the client window.  If no window menu button is
present,  the window menu is placed
at the top-left corner of the client window.
.IP "\fIf.prev_cmap\fP"
This function installs the previous colormap in the list of colormaps for
the window with the colormap focus.
.IP "\fIf.prev_key\fP [\fIicon\fP | \fIwindow\fP | \fItransient\fP]"
This function sets the keyboard input focus to the previous window/icon in
the set of windows/icons managed by the workspace manager 
(the ordering of this set is based on the stacking of windows on the screen).
This function is treated as \fIf.nop\fP if \fIkeyboardFocusPolicy\fP is not
explicit.
The keyboard input focus is only moved to windows that do not have an
associated secondary window that is application modal.
If the \fItransient\fP argument is specified, then transient (secondary)
windows are traversed (otherwise, if only \fIwindow\fP is specified,
traversal is done only to the last focused window in a transient
group).
If an \fIicon\fP function argument is specified then the
function applies only to icons.
If an \fIwindow\fP function argument is specified then the function applies
only to windows.
.IP "\fIf.prev_workspace\fP"
This function causes the workspace manager to switch to
the previous workspace.  If the first workspace is currently active,
then this function switches to the last workspace.
.IP "\fIf.quit_mwm\fP"
This function terminates dtwm (but NOT the X window system).
.IP "\fIf.raise\fP\ [\fI\-\fP\fBclient\fP | \fIwithin\fP | \fIfreeFamily\fP]"
This function raises a primary window to the top of the global window stack
(where it is obscured by no other window) and raises the secondary window
(transient window or dialog box) within the client family.  The
arguments to this function are mutually exclusive.
.sp 1
The \fBclient\fP argument indicates the name or class of a client to
lower.
If the \fBclient\fP is not specified, the context that the
function was invoked in indicates the window or icon to lower.
.sp 1
Specifying \fIwithin\fP raises the secondary window within the family
but does not raise the client family in the
global window stack.
.sp 1
Specifying \fIfreeFamily\fP raises the window to the top of its local
family stack and raises the family to the top of the global window stack.
.IP "\fIf.raise_lower\fP\ [\fIwithin\fP | \fIfreeFamily\fP]"
This function raises a primary window to the top of the global window stack if
it is partially obscured by another window; otherwise, it lowers the window
to the bottom of the window stack.  The arguments to this function
are mutually exclusive.
.sp 1
Specifying \fIwithin\fP raises a secondary window within the family
(staying above the parent window), if it
is partially obscured by another window in the application's family; 
otherwise, it lowers the
window to the bottom of the family stack.  It has no effect on the global 
window stacking order.
.sp 1
Specifying \fIfreeFamily\fP raises the window to the top of its local family
stack, if obscured by another window, and raises the family to the top of the 
global window stack; otherwise, it lowers the window to the bottom of its
local family stack and lowers the family to the bottom of the global window
stack.
.IP "\fIf.refresh\fP"
This function causes all windows to be redrawn.
.IP "\fIf.refresh_win\fP"
This function causes a client window to be redrawn.
.IP "\fIf.remove\fP"
This function causes a client window to be removed from the
current workspace.  If the client window exists only 
in this workspace, no action occurs.
.IP "\fIf.resize\fP"
This function initiates an interactive resize of a client window.
.IP "\fIf.restore\fP"
This function restores the previous state of an icon's associated window.
If a maximized window is iconified, then
\fIf.restore\fP restores it to its maximized state.  If a normal window is
iconified, then \fIf.restore\fP restores it to its normalized state.
.IP "\fIf.restore_and_raise\fP"
This function restores the previous state of an icon's associated
window and raises the window to the top of the window stack.
If a maximized window is iconified, then
\fIf.restore_and_raise\fP restores it to its maximized state and raises it
to the top of the window stack.  If a normal window is iconified, then
\fIf.restore_and_raise\fP restores it to its normalized state and raises it
to the top of the window stack.
.IP "\fIf.restart\fP"
This function causes dtwm to be restarted (effectively terminated
and re-executed). Restart is necessary for \fIdtwm\fP to incorporate 
changes in both the \fIdtwmrc\fP file and X resources.
.IP "\fIf.screen\fP\ [\fInext\fP | \fIprev\fP | \fIback\fP | \fBscreen_number\fP]"
This function causes the pointer to be warp to a specific screen number
or to the \fInext\fP, \fIprevious\fP, or last visited (\fIback\fP) screen.
The arguments to this function are mutually exclusive.
.sp 1
The \fBscreen_number\fP argument indicates the screen number that the
pointer is to be warped.  Screens are numbered starting from screen 0.
.sp 1
Specifying \fInext\fP cause the pointer to warp to the next managed
screen (skipping over any unmanaged screens).
.sp 1
Specifying \fIprev\fP cause the pointer to warp to the previous managed
screen (skipping over any unmanaged screens).
.sp 1
Specifying \fIback\fP cause the pointer to warp to the last visited
screen.
.IP "\fIf.send_msg\fP \fBmessage_number\fP"
This function sends an \fIXClientMessageEvent\fP of type 
_MOTIF_WM_MESSAGES with \fImessage_type\fP set to \fBmessage_number\fP.
The client message is sent only if \fImessage_number\fP is included in the
client's _MOTIF_WM_MESSAGES property.  A menu item label is grayed out if
the menu item is used to do \fIf.send_msg\fP of a message that is not
included in the client's _MOTIF_WM_MESSAGES property.  
.IP "\fIf.separator\fP"
This function causes a menu separator to be put in the menu pane at the
specified location (the label is ignored).
.IP "\fIf.set_behavior\fP"
This function causes the workspace manager to restart with the default 
behavior (if a custom behavior is configured) or a custom behavior (if a 
default behavior is configured).
By default this is bound to \fIShift\ Ctrl\ Meta\ <Key>!\fP.
.IP "\fIf.title\fP"
This function inserts a title in the menu pane at the specified location.
.IP "\fIf.toggle_frontpanel\fP"
If the front panel is in the normal state, this function causes it to be
minimized. If the front panel is minimized, this function will change it
to the normal state.
.IP "\fIf.version\fP"
This function causes the workspace manager to display its
release version in a dialog box.
.IP "\fIf.workspace_presence\fP"
This function displays the workspace presence (or "Occupy Workspace")
dialog box. This dialog allows you to view and set the workspace in which 
a particular window resides. The root context is disallowed for this function.
.SS "Function Constraints"
Each function may be constrained as to which resource types can specify 
the function (e.g., menu pane) and also what context the function can
be used in (e.g., the function is done to the selected client window).
Function contexts are
.P

.TP 15
.B root
No client window or icon has been selected as an object for
the function.
.TP 15
.B window
A client window has been selected as an object for the function.
This includes the window's title bar and frame.
Some functions are applied only when the window is
in its normalized state (e.g., f.maximize) or its maximized state
(e.g., f.normalize).
.TP 15
.B icon
An icon has been selected as an object for the function.
.P
If a function is specified in a type of resource where it is not supported
or is invoked in a context that does not apply
then the function is treated as \fIf.nop\fP.
The following table indicates the resource types and function contexts in
which workspace manager functions apply.
.sp 1
.TS
tab(~), center;
cBp7 cBp7 cBp7
lp6 lp6 lp6 .
Function~Contexts~Resources
=
.sp
f.action~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.beep~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.circle_down~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.circle_up~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.create_workspace~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.delete_workspace~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.exec~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.focus_color~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.focus_key~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.goto_workspace~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.help~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.help_mode~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.kill~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.lower~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.marquee_selection~root~button
f.maximize~icon,window(normal)~button,key,menu
f.menu~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.minimize~window~button,key,menu
f.move~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.next_cmap~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.next_key~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.next_workspace~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.nop~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.normalize~icon,window(maximized)~button,key,menu
f.normalize_and_raise~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.occupy_all~icon, window~button,key,menu
f.pack_icons~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.pass_keys~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.post_wmenu~root,icon,window~button,key
f.prev_cmap~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.prev_key~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.prev_workspace~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.quit_dtwm~root~button,key,menu (root only)
f.raise~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.raise_lower~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.refresh~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.refresh_win~window~button,key,menu
f.remove~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.resize~window~button,key,menu
f.restart~root~button,key,menu (root only)
f.restore~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.restore_and_raise~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.screen~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.send_msg~icon,window~button,key,menu
f.separator~root,icon,window~menu
f.set_behavior~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.title~root,icon,window~menu
f.toggle_frontpanel~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.version~root,icon,window~button,key,menu
f.workspace_presence~window~button,key,menu
.TE
.sp 1
.SH "\fBWORKSPACE MANAGER EVENT SPECIFICATION\fP"
Events are indicated as part of the specifications for button and key
binding sets, and menu panes.
.P
Button events have the following syntax:
.P
.in+4
.TS
tab(~);
l l.
\fBbutton\fP =~[\fBmodifier_list\fP]\fI<\fBbutton_event_name\fP\fI>\fP
\fBmodifier_list\fP =~\fBmodifier_name\fP {\fBmodifier_name\fP}
.TE
.in-4
.P
All modifiers specified are interpreted as being exclusive
(this means that only the specified modifiers can be present when the
button event occurs).
The following table indicates the values that can be used
for \fBmodifier_name\fP.\*F
.FS
The [Alt] key is frequently labeled [Extend] or [Meta].
Alt and Meta can be used interchangeably in event specification.
.FE
.sp 1
.TS
tab(~),center;
cbp7 cbp7
= | =
lp6 lp6.
Modifier~Description
Ctrl~Control Key
Shift~Shift Key
Alt~Alt/Meta Key
Meta~Meta/Alt Key
Lock~Lock Key
Mod1~Modifier1
Mod2~Modifier2
Mod3~Modifier3
Mod4~Modifier4
Mod5~Modifier5
.TE
.sp 1
The following table indicates the values that can be used for
\fBbutton_event_name\fP.
.sp 1
.TS
tab(~),center;
cbp7 cbp7
= | =
lp6 lp6.
Button~Description
Btn1Down~Button 1 Press
Btn1Up~Button 1 Release
Btn1Click~Button 1 Press and Release
Btn1Click2~Button 1 Double Click
Btn2Down~Button 2 Press
Btn2Up~Button 2 Release
Btn2Click~Button 2 Press and Release
Btn2Click2~Button 2 Double Click
Btn3Down~Button 3 Press
Btn3Up~Button 3 Release
Btn3Click~Button 3 Press and Release
Btn3Click2~Button 3 Double Click
Btn4Down~Button 4 Press
Btn4Up~Button 4 Release
Btn4Click~Button 4 Press and Release
Btn4Click2~Button 4 Double Click
Btn5Down~Button 5 Press
Btn5Up~Button 5 Release
Btn5Click~Button 5 Press and Release
Btn5Click2~Button 5 Double Click
.TE
.sp 1
Key events that are used by the workspace manager for menu mnemonics
and for binding to workspace manager functions are single key presses;
key releases are ignored.
Key events have the following syntax:
.P
.in+4
.TS
tab(~);
l l.
\fBkey\fP =~[\fBmodifier_list\fP]\fI<Key>\fP\fBkey_name\fP
\fBmodifier_list\fP =~\fBmodifier_name\fP {\fBmodifier_name\fP}
.TE
.in-4
.P
All modifiers specified are interpreted as being exclusive
(this means that only the specified modifiers can be present when the
key event occurs).
Modifiers for keys are the same as those that apply to buttons.
The \fBkey_name\fP is an X11 keysym name.
Keysym names can be found in the keysymdef.h file
(remove the \fIXK_\fP prefix).
.sp 1
.SH "\fBBUTTON BINDINGS\fP"
The \fIbuttonBindings\fP resource value is the name of a set of button 
bindings that are used to configure workspace manager behavior.
A workspace manager function can be done when a button press  occurs with 
the pointer over a framed client window,
an icon or the root window.
The context for indicating where the button press applies is also the
context for invoking the workspace manager function when the button press
is done
(significant for functions that are context sensitive).  
.P
The button binding syntax is
.P
.EX
\fIButtons\fP \fBbindings_set_name\fP
\fI{\fP
    \fBbutton\fP    \fBcontext\fP    \fBfunction\fP
    \fBbutton\fP    \fBcontext\fP    \fBfunction\fP
                         .
                         .
    \fBbutton\fP    \fBcontext\fP    \fBfunction\fP
\fI}\fP
.EE
.P
The syntax for the \fBcontext\fP specification is
  
.TS
tab(~), center;
ll.
\fBcontext\fP =~\fBobject\fP[\fI|\fP\fBcontext\fP]
\fBobject\fP =~\fIroot\fP | \fIicon\fP | \fIwindow\fP | \fItitle\fP | \fIframe\fP | \fIborder\fP | \fIapp\fP
.TE

The context specification indicates where the pointer must be for the
button binding to be effective.
For example, a context of \fIwindow\fP indicates that the pointer must
be over a client window or
window management frame for the button binding to be effective.
The \fIframe\fP context is for the window management frame around a
client window
(including the border and titlebar), the \fIborder\fP context is
for the border part of the window management frame
(not including the titlebar), the \fItitle\fP
context is for the title area of the window management frame,
and the \fIapp\fP context is for the application window
(not including the window management frame).  

If an \fIf.nop\fP function is specified for a button binding, the button
binding is not done.
.sp 1
.SH "\fBKEY BINDINGS\fP"
The \fIkeyBindings\fP resource value is the name of a set of key 
bindings that are used to configure workspace manager behavior.  A window
manager function can be done when a particular key is pressed. 
The context in which the key binding applies is indicated in the key
binding specification.
The valid contexts are the same as those that apply to button bindings.
  
The key binding syntax is
.P
.EX
.B
\fIKeys\fP \fBbindings_set_name\fP
\fI{\fP
    \fBkey\fP    \fBcontext\fP    \fBfunction\fP
    \fBkey\fP    \fBcontext\fP    \fBfunction\fP
                .
                .
    \fBkey\fP    \fBcontext\fP    \fBfunction\fP
\fI}\fP
.EE
.P
If an \fIf.nop\fP function is specified for a key binding, the key
binding is not done.
If an \fIf.post_wmenu\fP or \fIf.menu\fP function is bound to a 
key, dtwm automatically uses the same key for removing the menu from
the screen after it has been popped up.

The \fBcontext\fP specification syntax is the same as for button bindings.
For key bindings, the \fIframe\fP, \fItitle\fP, \fIborder\fP, and \fIapp\fP 
contexts are equivalent to the \fIwindow\fP context.
The context for a key event is the window or icon that has the keyboard
input focus (\fIroot\fP if no window or icon has the keyboard input focus).
.sp 1
.SH "\fBMENU PANES\fP"
Menus can be popped up using the \fIf.post_wmenu\fP and
\fIf.menu\fP workspace manager functions.
The context for workspace manager functions that are done from 
a menu is \fIroot\fP, \fIicon\fP or \fIwindow\fP depending on how the
menu was popped up.
In the case of the \fIwindow\fP menu or menus popped up with a key
binding, the location of the keyboard input
focus indicates the context.
For menus popped up using a button binding,
the context of the button binding is the context of the menu.
  
The menu pane specification syntax is
.P
.EX
.B
\fIMenu\fP \fBmenu_name\fP
\fI{\fP
    \fBlabel\fP  [\fBmnemonic\fP]  [\fBaccelerator\fP]   \fBfunction\fP
    \fBlabel\fP  [\fBmnemonic\fP]  [\fBaccelerator\fP]   \fBfunction\fP
                .
                .
    \fBlabel\fP  [\fBmnemonic\fP]  [\fBaccelerator\fP]   \fBfunction\fP
\fI}\fP
.EE
.P
Each line in the \fIMenu\fP specification identifies the label for a menu
item and the function to be done if the menu item is selected.
Optionally a menu button mnemonic and a menu button keyboard accelerator
may be specified.
Mnemonics are functional only when the menu is posted
and keyboard traversal applies.
.P
The \fBlabel\fP may be a string or a bitmap file.
The label specification has the following syntax:

.TS
tab(~), center;
l l.
\fBlabel\fP =~\fBtext\fP | \fBbitmap_file\fP
\fBbitmap_file\fP =~\fI@\fP\fBfile_name\fP
\fBtext\fP =~\fBquoted_item\fP | \fBunquoted_item\fP
.TE
  
The string encoding for labels must be compatible with the menu font that 
is used.
Labels are greyed out for menu items that do the \fIf.nop\fP function 
or an invalid function or a function that doesn't apply in the current
context.

A \fBmnemonic\fP specification has the following syntax
.sp 1
.in+4
.TS
tab(~);
l l.
\fBmnemonic\fP =~\fI_\fP\fBcharacter\fP
.TE
.in-4
.sp 1
The first matching \fBcharacter\fP in the label is underlined.
If there is no matching \fBcharacter\fP in the label, no 
mnemonic is registered with the workspace manager for that label.
Although the \fBcharacter\fP must exactly match a character in the
label,
the mnemonic does not execute if any modifier (such as Shift) is pressed with 
the character key.
.sp 1
The \fBaccelerator\fP specification is a key event specification with
the same syntax as is used for key bindings to workspace manager functions.
.sp 1
.SH "INCLUDING FILES"
You may include other files into your dtwmrc file by using the
\fIinclude\fP construct. For example:
.EX
INCLUDE
{
    /usr/local/shared/dtwm.menus
    /home/kmt/personal/my.bindings
}
.EE
.sp 1
causes the files named to be read in and interpreted in order as an
additional part of the dtwmrc file. 
.P
\fIInclude\fP is a top-level construct. It cannot be nested
inside another construct. 
.sp 1
.SH WARNINGS
.P
Errors that occur during the processing of  
the resource description file are recorded in: \fI$HOME/.dt/errorlog\fP.  
Be sure to check this file if the appearance or behavior of \fIdtwm\fP 
is not what you expect.
.sp 1
.SH FILES
.sp 1
 $HOME/.dt/$LANG/dtwmrc
 $HOME/.dt/dtwmrc
 /etc/dt/config/$LANG/sys.dtwmrc
 /etc/dt/config/sys.dtwmrc
 /usr/dt/config/$LANG/sys.dtwmrc
 /usr/dt/config/sys.dtwmrc
 $HOME/.dt/errorlog
.sp 1
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) Copyright 1989,1990,1991,1992,1993 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
(c) Copyright 1987,1988,1989,1990,1992,1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.br
(c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.br
(c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.br
(c) Copyright 1993,1994 Unix System Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fIdtwm(1)\fP, \fImwm(1X)\fP, \fIdtfile(1)\fP, and \fIX(1)\fP.
