.TH Set_Geometry 4 "13 May 1994"
.SH NAME
Set_Geometry request \- set a tool's on-screen geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
.ta \w@Set_Geometry(@u
Set_Geometry(inout width \f2w\fP,
	inout height \f2h\fP,
	inout xOffset \f2x\fP,
	inout yOffset \f2y\fP
	[in messageID \f2commission\fP]);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Geometry
request
sets the on-screen geometry of the optionally specified
window, or of the window primarily associated with the recipient
procid (if no window is specified).
.P
The
.IR w ,
.IR h ,
.I x
and
.I y
arguments are integer geometry values, in pixels,
representing width, height, x-coordinate and y-coordinate,
respectively.
Negative offset values
are interpreted according to the
.cde .BR X11 (7)
.cde man page.
.xo \*(Zl.
If any of these arguments are unset, that part of the geometry need
not be changed.
The return values are the actual
new values, in case they differ from the requested new values.
.P
The
.I commission
argument
is the ID of the ongoing request, if any, that resulted in the creation
of the window in question.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn ttdt_session_join 3,
and
.Fn ttdt_message_accept 3,
functions can be used by Xt applications to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Geometry
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Geometry
request can be sent as in the following example:
.Cs I
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_GEOMETRY,
			my_callback);
tt_message_iarg_add(msg, TT_INOUT, Tttk_width, 500);
tt_message_iarg_add(msg, TT_INOUT, Tttk_height, 500);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_INOUT, Tttk_xoffset, 0); /* no value */
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_INOUT, Tttk_yoffset, 0); /* no value */
tt_message_send(msg);
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn tt_message_arg_add 3,
.Fn tt_message_iarg_add 3,
.Fn tt_message_send 3,
.Fn ttdt_message_accept 3,
.Fn ttdt_session_join 3;
.I Get_Geometry
request.
