.TH Set_Locale 4 "13 May 1994"
.SH NAME
Set_Locale request \- set a tool's locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
.ta \w@Set_Locale(@u
Set_Locale(in string \f2category\fP,
	in string \f2locale\fP
	[...]);
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Set_Locale
request
reports the
.xo XPG4
.cde POSIX
locale of the indicated locale categories.
.P
The
.I category
argument
is the locale category to set.
A locale category is a
group of data types whose output formatting varies according to
locale in a similar way.
ISO C and \*(XX locale categories are:
.Cs I
LC_ALL
LC_COLLATE
LC_CTYPE
LC_MESSAGES
LC_MONETARY
LC_NUMERIC
LC_TIME
.Ce
.P
The
.I locale
argument
is the name of the
locale to set the indicated category to.
The value of
.I locale
is implementation-defined.
.suns
For example, Solaris defines such locales as
.BR C ,
.BR de ,
.BR fr ,
.BR it ,
etc.
.sune
.SH ERRORS
The ToolTalk service may return the following error
in processing the
.I Set_Locale
request:
.VL 6
.Lc TT_DESKTOP_EINVAL
.br
The
.I locale
argument is not valid on the handler's host.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.Fn ttdt_session_join 3,
function can be used to register for,
and transparently process, the
.I Set_Locale
request.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.I Set_Locale
request can be sent as in the following example:
.Cs I
Tt_message msg = tttk_message_create(0, TT_REQUEST, TT_SESSION,
			the_recipient_procid, TTDT_SET_LOCALE,
			my_callback);
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string, "LC_MONETARY");
tt_message_arg_add(msg, TT_IN, Tttk_string, "de");
tt_message_send(msg);
.Ce
.cdes 
.SH WARNINGS
.I Set_Locale
can also be sent as a multicast notice, as an
.I edict 
to all tools in the scope of the message.
The consequences of doing so can be severe and unexpected.
.cdee
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn setlocale 3C
.xo in the \*(Zk,
.sun .I Solaris 2.3 Developer's Guide to Internationalization;
.Fn tt_message_arg_add 3,
.Fn tt_message_send 3,
.Fn ttdt_sender_imprint_on 3,
.Fn ttdt_session_join 3;
.I Get_Locale
request.
