...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH MrmFetchIconLiteral 3X
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIMrmFetchIconLiteral\fP \- Fetches an icon literal from a hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int MrmFetchIconLiteral(\fBhierarchy_id, index, screen, display, fgpix, bgpix, pixmap\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	MrmHierarchy	\fBhierarchy_id\fI;
	String	\fBindex\fI;
	Screen	*\fBscreen\fI;
	Display	*\fBdisplay\fI;
	Pixel	\fBfgpix\fI;
	Pixel	\fBbgpix\fI;
	Pixmap	*\fBpixmap\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The
\fIMrmFetchIconLiteral\fP
function
fetches an icon literal from an MRM hierarchy, and converts the
icon literal to an X pixmap.
.IP "\fBhierarchy_id\fP"
Specifies the ID of the UID hierarchy that contains the
specified icon literal.
The \fBhierarchy_id\fP was returned in a previous call to
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBindex\fP"
Specifies the UIL name of the icon literal to fetch.
.IP "\fBscreen\fP"
Specifies the screen used for the pixmap.
The
\fBscreen\fP
argument specifies a pointer to the
Xlib structure
\fIScreen\fP
which contains the information about that screen and is linked to the
\fIDisplay\fP
structure.
.ne 8
For more information on the
\fIDisplay\fP
and
\fIScreen\fP
structures, see the Xlib function
\fIXOpenDisplay\fP
and the associated screen information macros.
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the display used for the pixmap.
The
\fBdisplay\fP
argument specifies the connection to the X server.
For more information on the
\fIDisplay\fP structure, see the Xlib function
\fIXOpenDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBfgpix\fP"
Specifies the foreground color for the pixmap.
.IP "\fBbgpix\fP"
Specifies the background color for the pixmap.
.IP "\fBpixmap\fP"
Returns the resulting X pixmap value.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.IP "\fIMrmSUCCESS\fP"
The function executed successfully.
.IP "\fIMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP"
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP "\fIMrmNOT_FOUND\fP"
The icon literal was not found in the hierarchy.
.IP "\fIMrmWRONG_TYPE\fP"
The caller tried to fetch a literal of a type not supported by this
function.
.IP "\fIMrmFAILURE\fP"
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIMrmFetchBitmapLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchColorLiteral(3X)\fP, and
\fIXOpenDisplay(3X)\fP.
.ad
