...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH MrmFetchBitmapLiteral 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIMrmFetchBitmapLiteral\fP \- Fetches a bitmap literal from a hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Cardinal MrmFetchBitmapLiteral(\fBhierarchy_id, index, screen, display, pixmap_return, width, height\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	MrmHierarchy	\fBhierarchy_id\fI;
	String	\fBindex\fI;
	Screen	*\fBscreen\fI;
	Display	*\fBdisplay\fI;
	Pixmap	*\fBpixmap_return\fI;
	Dimension	*\fBwidth\fI;
	Dimension	*\fBheight\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The \fIMrmFetchBitmapLiteral\fP function fetches a bitmap literal
from an MRM hierarchy, and converts the bitmap literal to an X pixmap
of depth 1.  The function returns this pixmap and its width and height.
.IP "\fBhierarchy_id\fP"
Specifies the ID of the UID hierarchy that contains the
specified icon literal.  The \fBhierarchy_id\fP was returned in
a previous call to \fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBindex\fP"
Specifies the UIL name of the bitmap literal to fetch.
.IP "\fBscreen\fP"
Specifies the screen used for the pixmap.
The \fBscreen\fP argument specifies a pointer to the
Xlib structure \fIScreen\fP which contains the information about that
screen and is linked to the \fIDisplay\fP structure.
For more information on the \fIDisplay\fP and \fIScreen\fPstructures,
see the Xlib function \fIXOpenDisplay\fP and the associated screen
information macros.
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the display used for the pixmap.
The \fBdisplay\fP argument specifies the connection to the X server.
For more information on the \fIDisplay\fP structure, see the Xlib function
\fIXOpenDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBpixmap_return\fP"
Returns the resulting X pixmap value.
.IP "\fBwidth\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the width of the pixmap.
.IP "\fBheight\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the height of the pixmap.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.IP "\fIMrmSUCCESS\fP"
The function executed successfully.
.IP "\fIMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP"
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP "\fIMrmNOT_FOUND\fP"
The bitmap literal was not found in the hierarchy.
.IP "\fIMrmWRONG_TYPE\fP"
The caller tried to fetch a literal of a type not supported by this
function.
.IP "\fIMrmFAILURE\fP"
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIMrmFetchIconLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchLiteral(3X)\fP, and
\fIXOpenDisplay(3X)\fP.
.ad
