...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH MrmFetchColorLiteral 3X
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIMrmFetchColorLiteral\fP \- Fetches a named color literal from a UID file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int MrmFetchColorLiteral(\fBhierarchy_id, index, display, colormap_id, pixel\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	MrmHierarchy	\fBhierarchy_id\fI;
	String	\fBindex\fI;
	Display	*\fBdisplay\fI;
	Colormap	\fBcolormap_id\fI;
	Pixel	*\fBpixel\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The
\fIMrmFetchColorLiteral\fP
function
fetches a named color literal from a UID file, and converts the
color literal to a pixel color value.
.IP "\fBhierarchy_id\fP"
Specifies the ID of the UID hierarchy that contains the
specified literal.
The \fBhierarchy_id\fP was returned in a previous call to
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBindex\fP"
Specifies the UIL name of the color literal to fetch.
You must define this name in UIL as an exported value.
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the display used for the pixmap.
The
\fBdisplay\fP
argument specifies the connection to the X server.
For more information on the
\fIDisplay\fP structure, see the Xlib function
\fIXOpenDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBcolormap_id\fP"
Specifies the ID of the color map.
If NULL, the default color map is used.
.IP "\fBpixel\fP"
Returns the ID of the color literal.
.nL
.ne 9
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.IP "\fIMrmSUCCESS\fP"
The function executed successfully.
.IP "\fIMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP"
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP "\fIMrmNOT_FOUND\fP"
The color literal was not found in the UIL file.
.IP "\fIMrmWRONG_TYPE\fP"
The caller tried to fetch a literal of a type not supported by this
function.
.IP "\fIMrmFAILURE\fP"
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIMrmFetchBitmapLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchIconLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fIMrmFetchLiteral(3X)\fP, and
\fIXOpenDisplay(3X)\fP.
.ad
