...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH MrmRegisterClass 3X
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIMrmRegisterClass\fP \- Saves the information needed for MRM to access the widget creation function for user-defined widgets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Cardinal MrmRegisterClass(\fBclass_code, class_name, create_name, create_proc, class_record\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	MrmType	\fBclass_code\fI;
	String	\fBclass_name\fI;
	String	\fBcreate_name\fI;
	Widget	(*\fBcreate_proc\fI) ();
	WidgetClass	\fBclass_record\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The
\fIMrmRegisterClass\fP
function
allows MRM to access user-defined widget classes.
This function registers the necessary information for
MRM to create widgets of this class.
You must call
\fIMrmRegisterClass\fP
prior to fetching any user-defined class widget.
.PP 
\fIMrmRegisterClass\fP
saves the information needed to access the widget creation
function and to do type conversion of argument lists by using the
information in MRM databases.
.IP "\fBclass_code\fP"
This argument is ignored; it is present for compatibility with previous
releases.
.IP "\fBclass_name\fP"
This argument is ignored; it is present for compatibility with previous
releases.
.IP "\fBcreate_name\fP"
Specifies the case-sensitive name of the low-level widget creation
function for the class.
An example from the Motif Toolkit is
\fIXmCreateLabel\fP.
Arguments are
\fBparent_widget\fP,
\fBname\fP,
\fBoverride_arglist\fP,
and
\fBoverride_argcount\fP.
.PP
For user-defined widgets,
\fBcreate_name\fP
is the creation procedure in the UIL that defines this widget.
.IP "\fBcreate_proc\fP"
Specifies the address of the creation function that you named in
\fBcreate_name\fP.
.IP "\fBclass_record\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the class record.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.IP "\fIMrmSUCCESS\fP"
The function executed successfully.
.IP "\fIMrmFAILURE\fP"
The function failed.
