'\" t
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH TransientShell 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fITransientShell\fP \- The TransientShell widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <X11/Shell.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
TransientShell is used for shell windows that can be manipulated by the
window manager but are not allowed to be iconified separately.  For example,
Dialog boxes make no sense without their associated application.
They are iconified by the window manager only if the main application
shell is iconified.
.nL
.ne 2i
.SS "Classes"
TransientShell inherits behavior and resources from \fICore\fP,
\fIComposite\fP, \fIShell\fP,
\fIWMShell\fP, and \fIVendorShell\fP.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fItransientShellWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fITransientShell\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP 
In addition to these new resources, new resources, \fITransientShell\fP
overrides the \fIXmNsaveUnder\fP resource in \fIShell\fP and the
\fIXmNtransient\fP resource in \fIWMShell\fP.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
TransientShell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNtransientFor	XmCTransientFor	Widget	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXmNtransientFor\fP"
Specifies a widget for which the shell acts as a pop-up.
If this resource is NULL or is a widget that has not been realized, the
\fIXmNwindowGroup\fP is used instead.
.nL
.ne 1.5i
.SS "Inherited Resources"
TransientShell inherits behavior and resources from the following superclasses.
For a complete description of each resource, refer to the man page for that
superclass.
.P 
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
VendorShell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaudibleWarning	XmCAudibleWarning	unsigned char	XmBELL	CSG
XmNbuttonFontList	XmCButtonFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CSG
XmNdefaultFontList	XmCDefaultFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CG
XmNdeleteResponse	XmCDeleteResponse	unsigned char	XmDESTROY	CSG
XmNinputMethod	XmCInputMethod	String	NULL	CSG
XmNkeyboardFocusPolicy	XmCKeyboardFocusPolicy	unsigned char	XmEXPLICIT	CSG
XmNlabelFontList	XmCLabelFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CSG
XmNmwmDecorations	XmCMwmDecorations	int	-1	CSG
XmNmwmFunctions	XmCMwmFunctions	int	-1	CSG
XmNmwmInputMode	XmCMwmInputMode	int	-1	CSG
XmNmwmMenu	XmCMwmMenu	String	NULL	CSG
XmNpreeditType	XmCPreeditType	String	dynamic	CSG
XmNshellUnitType	XmCShellUnitType	unsigned char	XmPIXELS	CSG
XmNtextFontList	XmCTextFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CSG
XmNuseAsyncGeometry	XmCUseAsyncGeometry	Boolean	False	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
WMShell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbaseHeight	XmCBaseHeight	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNbaseWidth	XmCBaseWidth	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNheightInc	XmCHeightInc	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNiconMask	XmCIconMask	Pixmap	NULL	CSG
XmNiconPixmap	XmCIconPixmap	Pixmap	NULL	CSG
XmNiconWindow	XmCIconWindow	Window	NULL	CSG
XmNiconX	XmCIconX	int	\-1	CSG
XmNiconY	XmCIconY	int	\-1	CSG
XmNinitialState	XmCInitialState	int	NormalState	CSG
XmNinput	XmCInput	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNmaxAspectX	XmCMaxAspectX	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNmaxAspectY	XmCMaxAspectY	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNmaxHeight	XmCMaxHeight	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNmaxWidth	XmCMaxWidth	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
.wH
.tH
XmNminAspectX	XmCMinAspectX	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNminAspectY	XmCMinAspectY	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNminHeight	XmCMinHeight	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNminWidth	XmCMinWidth	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNtitle	XmCTitle	String	dynamic	CSG
XmNtitleEncoding	XmCTitleEncoding	Atom	dynamic	CSG
XmNtransient	XmCTransient	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNwaitForWm	XmCWaitForWm	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNwidthInc	XmCWidthInc	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNwindowGroup	XmCWindowGroup	Window	dynamic	CSG
XmNwinGravity	XmCWinGravity	int	dynamic	CSG
XmNwmTimeout	XmCWmTimeout	int	5000 ms	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Shell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNallowShellResize	XmCAllowShellResize	Boolean	False	CG
XmNcreatePopupChildProc	XmCCreatePopupChildProc	XtCreatePopupChildProc	NULL	CSG
XmNgeometry	XmCGeometry	String	NULL	CSG
XmNoverrideRedirect	XmCOverrideRedirect	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNpopdownCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNpopupCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNsaveUnder	XmCSaveUnder	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNvisual	XmCVisual	Visual *	CopyFromParent	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Composite Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	1	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for TransientShell.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIComposite(3X)\fP,
\fICore(3X)\fP, \fIShell(3X)\fP, \fIVendorShell(3X)\fP, and \fIWMShell(3X)\fP.
.ad
