...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmAddTabGroup 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmAddTabGroup\fP \- A function that adds a manager or a primitive
widget to the list of tab groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmAddTabGroup (\fBtab_group\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBtab_group\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
This function is obsolete and its behavior is replaced by setting
\fIXmNnavigationType\fP to \fIXmEXCLUSIVE_TAB_GROUP\fP.
When using the keyboard to traverse through a widget hierarchy, primitive
or manager
widgets are grouped together into what are known as \fItab groups\fP.  Any
manager or primitive widget can be a tab group.  Within
a tab group, move the focus to the next widget within the tab
group by using the arrow keys.  To move to another tab group, use
\fIKNextField\fP or \fIKPrevField\fP.
.PP 
Tab groups are ordinarily specified by the \fIXmNnavigationType\fP
resource.
\fIXmAddTabGroup\fP is called to control the order of traversal of tab
groups.  The widget specified
.ne 10
by \fBtab_group\fP is appended to the list of tab
groups to be traversed, and the widget's \fIXmNnavigationType\fP is set
to \fIXmEXCLUSIVE_TAB_GROUP\fP.
.IP "\fBtab_group\fP"
Specifies the manager or primitive widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmManager(3X)\fP,
\fIXmGetTabGroup(3X)\fP,
\fIXmPrimitive(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmRemoveTabGroup(3X)\fP.
.ad
