...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH xmbind 1X "" "" "" ""
...\" ______________ start of SML macros ______________
.ds !) CW
.ds !] (CW
.cs \*(!) 20
.bd \*(!) 2
.ds |A Chapter
.nr |P 0
.nr |D 1
.deaS
..
.deaE
..
.deoS
.SP
.ps -1
.ft \\*(!)
.nf
.nr !x 8*\\w'0'
.ta \\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu
.if\\n(.$>0 .in 0
..
.deoE
.ps +1
.ft R
.fi
.SP
..
.deiS
.SP
.ps -1
.ft B
.nf
..
.deiE
.ps +1
.ft R
.fi
.SP
..
.decS
.ig cE
..
.decE
..
.dezA
.SP 1
.nr |Q (\\n(.lu-\\w\ \ \\$1\ (start)\ \ u-\\n(.i)/2
\&\\l\\n(|Qu\ \ \\$1\ (start)\ \ \\l\\n(|Qu
.br
..
.dezZ
.br
.nr |Q (\\n(.lu-\\w\ \ \\$1\ (end)\ \ u-\\n(.i)/2
\&\\l\\n(|Qu\ \ \\$1\ (end)\ \ \\l\\n(|Qu
.SP 1
..
.delS
..
.delE
..
.nr Nn 0 1
.denS
.P
.nr Nn +1
.ie\\$1warning .ds yy Warning:\ \
.el.ie\\$1caution .ds yy Caution:\ \
.el.ie\\$1note .ds yy Note:\ \
.el.ie\\$1reviewnote \{\
.	ds yy
.	ps +2
.	ft B
.	P
Review Note To Developers:
.	P
.	ft
.	ps -2 \}
.el.ds yy \\$1:\ \
.ft B
.ll -\w\\*(yyu
.in +\w\\*(yyu
.ti -\w\\*(yyu
\\*(yy\c
.ft
..
.denE
.nr Nn -1
.in -\w\\*(yyu
.ll +\w\\*(yyu
.P
..
.de |F
.ie\\$1table .nr |F 1
.el.nr |F 0
.ie\\n(|D=0&\\n(|F=1 \{\
.	ds L \&\\f(HB
.	ds V \&\\f(HI
.	ds A \&\\f\\*(!]
.	ds N \&\\f\\*(!]
.	ds O \&\\fH
.	ds C \&\\f\\*(!]
.	ds U \&\\f(HB
.	ds E \&\\f(HI
'	br \}
.el\{\
.	ds L \&\\fB
.	ds V \&\\fI
.	ds A \&\\f\\*(!]
.	ds N \&\\f\\*(!]
.	ds O \&\\fR
.	ds C \&\\f\\*(!]
.	ds U \&\\fB
.	ds E \&\\fI
'	br \}
..
.|F general
.am TS
.|F table
..
.am TE
.|F general
..
.desS
.SP
..
.desE
.SP
..
.defS
.br
\&\fB\\$1(\fP
.nr !+ 1
.nr !% 0
..
.defE
\fB);\fP
.br
.if\\n(!%=1 .in -5i
.nr !+ 0
.nr !% 0
..
.dedS
.if\\n(!+=1 \{\
.	ie \\n(!%=0 .in +.5i
.	el \fB,\fP
'	br \}
.br
\&\fB\\$1\fR
.nr !% 1
..
.dedE
.if\\n(!+=0 \fB;\fR
..
.dekY
.ft B
<\\$1>
.ft
..
.de K,
\fB<\\$1>\fP\\$2
..
.de ,K
\&\\$1\fB<\\$2>\fP
..
.deeM
.ft I
\&\\$1
.ft
..
.de E,
\&\fI\\$1\fP\^\\$2
..
.de ,E
\&\\$1\^\fI\\$2\fP
..
.dedI
.so \\$1
..
.deeI
.nf
.ft CW
.nr !x 8*\w'0'
.ta \\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu +\\n(!xu
.de !~
so\\$1
\\..
.wh \\n(nlu+\\n(.tu-1v e,
.e:
!~
e;
.ft
.fi
.ch e,
..
.de e:
.eo
.c2 
.cc 
..
.de e;
cc
.c2
.ec
..
.de e,
e;
'bp
.e:
..
.depI
.br
.fl
.rs
.sy includePS "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" > /tmp/pI.tmp.
.so /tmp/pI.tmp.
.sy rm -f /tmp/pI.tmp.
..
.depM
..
.denP
.bp
..
.denL
.br
..
.dewH
..
.rn RS rS
.rn RE rE
.detH
..
.am TH
.|Y TH "\\$1"
..
.am SH
.|Y SH "\\$1"
..
.am SS
.|Y SS "\\$1"
..
.nr Ll 0 1
.nr $A 0 1
.nr $M 0 1
.nr $V 0 1
.de |Y
.if\\n(Ll>0 \{\
.	tm unterminated list (no .LE) -- noticed by the .\\$1 "\\$2"
.	nr Ll 0
'	br \}
..
.rn PP P#
.dePP
.ie(\\n(Ll>0):(\\n(Nn>0) .sp \\n(PDu
.el.P#
..
.deML
.SP
.nr $M +1
.if\\n(Ll>0 .rS \\n(%\\n(Llu
.nr Ll +1
.nr %\\n(Ll .5i
.ie\\n($M=1 .ds %\\n(Ll \(bu
.el\{\
.	ie t .ds %\\n(Ll \(em
.	el .ds %\\n(Ll --
'	br \}
.ien .ds %\\n(Ll "\ \ \\*(%\\n(Ll
.el.ds %\\n(Ll "\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \\*(%\\n(Ll
.nr #\\n(Ll 0 1
.ds #\\n(Ll M
..
.deVL
.SP
.nr $V +1
.if\\n(Ll>0 .rS \\n(%\\n(Llu
.nr Ll +1
.ie\\$1 .nr %\\n(Ll 1i
.el.nr %\\n(Ll \\$1n
.ds #\\n(Ll V
..
.deAL
.SP
.nr $A +1
.if\\n(Ll>0 .rS \\n(%\\n(Llu
.nr Ll +1
.nr %\\n(Ll .5i
.ie\\n($A=1 .af #\\n(Ll 1
.el.ie\\n($A=2 .af #\\n(Ll a
.el.af #\\n(Ll i
.nr #\\n(Ll 0 1
.ds %\\n(Ll \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\n+(#\\n(Ll
.ien .ds %\\n(Ll "\ \\*(%\\n(Ll
.el.ds %\\n(Ll "\ \ \ \ \ \\*(%\\n(Ll
.ds #\\n(Ll A
..
.deLI
.SP .25
.ie\\*(#\\n(LlV \{\
.	IP "\\$1" \\n(%\\n(Llu
'	br \}
.el.ie\\*(#\\n(LlM \{\
.	IP \\*(%\\n(Ll \\n(%\\n(Llu
'	br \}
.el.IP \\*(%\\n(Ll. \\n(%\\n(Llu
..
.deLE
.ie\\*(#\\n(LlA \{\
.	nr $A -1
.	nr Ll -1
.	if \\n(Ll>0 .rE
'	in \\n(%\\n(Llu+\\n()Ru+\\n(INu
'	br \}
.el.ie\\*(#\\n(LlV \{\
.	nr $V -1
.	nr Ll -1
.	if \\n(Ll>0 .rE
'	in \\n(%\\n(Llu+\\n()Ru+\\n(INu
'	br \}
.el.if\\*(#\\n(LlM \{\
.	nr $M -1
.	nr Ll -1
.	if \\n(Ll>=0 .rE
'	in \\n(%\\n(Llu+\\n()Ru+\\n(INu
'	br \}
.SP
..
.deFG
.)F Figure 0 \\n+(Fg "\\$1"
..
.deTB
.)F Table 1 \\n+(Tb "\\$1"
..
.deEC
.)F Equation 2 \\n+(Ec "\\$1"
..
.deEX
.)F Exhibit 3 \\n+(Ex "\\$1"
..
.de )F
.sp \\n(PDu
.ce 1
\\$1\ \\n(H1\(mi\\$3.\ \ \\$4
.sp \\n(PDu
.if\\n(|Z=1 .tm !TOC: .if \\$2=\\\\\\\\$1 .)T 1 1 "\\$1\ \\n(H1\(mi\\$3.\ \ " "\\$4" \\nP \\n(H1
..
.deSP
.br
.nr |Q \\n(PDu
.if\\n(.$ .nr |Q \\$1v
.if!(\\n(nl=\\n(|B) .nr |A 0
.nr |Q -\\n(|Au
.if\\n(|Q \{\
.	sp \\n(|Qu
.	nr |A +\\n(|Qu
'	br \}
.nr |B \\n(nl
..
...\" ______________ end of SML macros ______________
.SH NAME
\*Lxmbind\*O\(emConfigures virtual key bindings
.iX "xmbind"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
\*Lxmbind\*O  [\*Voptions\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*Lxmbind\*O is an X Window System client that configures the virtual
key bindings for Motif applications.  This action is performed by \*Lmwm\*O
at its startup, so the \*Lxmbind\*O client is only needed when \*Lmwm\*O
is not in use, or when you want to change bindings without restarting
\*Lmwm\*O.  If a file is specified,
it's contents are used as the virtual key bindings.  If a file is not
specified, the file \*L\&.motifbind\*O in the user's home directory
is used.  If this file is not found, \*Lxmbind\*O loads the default
virtual key bindings, as described in \*LVirtualBindings(3X)\*O.
.SS Options
.VL 8
.LI "\*L\-display\*O"
This option specifies the display to use; see X(1).
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LVirtualBindings(3X)\*O and
\*LX(1X)\*O.
.ad
