'\" t
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCascadeButton 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCascadeButton\fP \- The CascadeButton widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/CascadeB.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
CascadeButton links two MenuPanes or a MenuBar to a MenuPane.
.PP 
It is used in menu systems and must have a RowColumn parent
with its \fIXmNrowColumnType\fP resource set to \fIXmMENU_BAR\fP,
\fIXmMENU_POPUP\fP or \fIXmMENU_PULLDOWN\fP.
.PP 
It is the only widget that can have a Pulldown MenuPane attached to it as
a submenu.  The submenu is displayed when this widget is activated within
a MenuBar, a PopupMenu, or a PulldownMenu.  Its visuals can
include a label or pixmap and a cascading indicator when it is in a
Popup or Pulldown MenuPane; or, it can include only a label or a pixmap
when it is in a MenuBar.
.PP 
The default behavior associated with a CascadeButton depends on the type
of menu system in which it resides.
By default, \fIBSelect\fP controls the behavior of the CascadeButton.
In addition, \fIBMenu\fP controls the behavior of the CascadeButton if
it resides in a Menu system.
The actual mouse button used is determined by its RowColumn parent.
.PP 
A CascadeButton's visuals differ from most other button gadgets.  When the
button
becomes armed, its visuals change from a 2-D to a 3-D look, and it displays
the submenu that has been attached
to it.  If no submenu is attached, it simply changes its visuals.
.PP 
When a CascadeButton within a Pulldown or Popup MenuPane
is armed as the result of the user
moving the mouse pointer into the widget, it does not immediately display its
submenu.  Instead, it waits a short amount of time to see if the arming
was temporary (that is, the user was simply passing through the widget), or
whether the user really wanted the submenu posted.  This time delay is
configurable via \fIXmNmappingDelay\fP.
.PP 
CascadeButton provides a single mechanism for
activating the widget from the keyboard.  This mechanism is referred to as
a keyboard mnemonic.
If a mnemonic has been
specified for the widget, the user may activate the CascadeButton
by simply typing the mnemonic while the CascadeButton is visible.
If the CascadeButton is in a MenuBar and the MenuBar does not have the
focus, the \fIMAlt\fP modifier must be
pressed with the mnemonic.
Mnemonics are typically used to interact with a menu
via the keyboard interface.
.PP 
If in a Pulldown or Popup MenuPane and there is a submenu attached, the
\fIXmNmarginBottom\fP, \fIXmNmarginLeft\fP, \fIXmNmarginRight\fP, and
\fIXmNmarginTop\fP resources may
enlarge to accommodate \fIXmNcascadePixmap\fP.
\fIXmNmarginWidth\fP defaults
to 6 if this
resource is in a MenuBar; otherwise, it takes Label's default, which
is 2.
.SS "Classes"
CascadeButton inherits behavior and resources from \fICore\fP,
\fIXmPrimitive\fP, and \fIXmLabel\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIxmCascadeButtonWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXmCascadeButton\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmCascadeButton Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNactivateCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNcascadePixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNcascadingCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNmappingDelay	XmCMappingDelay	int	180 ms	CSG
XmNsubMenuId	XmCMenuWidget	Widget	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXmNactivateCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called
when the user activates the CascadeButton widget,
and there is no submenu attached to pop up.  The activation occurs by
releasing a mouse button
or by typing the mnemonic associated with the widget.  The specific mouse
button depends on information in the RowColumn parent.  The reason
sent by the callback is \fIXmCR_ACTIVATE\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNcascadePixmap\fP"
Specifies the cascade pixmap displayed on one end of the widget when
a CascadeButton is used within a Popup or Pulldown MenuPane and a submenu
is attached.
The Label class resources \fIXmNmarginBottom\fP, \fIXmNmarginLeft\fP,
\fIXmNmarginRight\fP, and \fIXmNmarginTop\fP may be modified to ensure
that room is left for the cascade pixmap.
The default cascade pixmap is an arrow pointing to the side of the menu
where the submenu will appear.
.IP "\fIXmNcascadingCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called
just prior to the mapping of the submenu associated with
CascadeButton.  The reason sent by the callback is \fIXmCR_CASCADING\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNmappingDelay\fP"
Specifies the amount of time, in milliseconds, between when a CascadeButton
becomes armed and when it maps its submenu.  This delay is used only when
the widget is within a Popup or Pulldown MenuPane.
The value must not be negative.
.IP "\fIXmNsubMenuId\fP"
Specifies the widget ID for the Pulldown MenuPane to be associated with
this CascadeButton.  The specified MenuPane is displayed
when the CascadeButton becomes armed.  The MenuPane must have been created
with the appropriate parentage depending on the type of menu used.  See
\fIXmCreateMenuBar(3X)\fP, \fIXmCreatePulldownMenu(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu(3X)\fP for more information on the menu systems.
.SS "Inherited Resources"
CascadeButton inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmLabel Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerator	XmCAccelerator	String	NULL	N/A
XmNacceleratorText	XmCAcceleratorText	XmString	NULL	N/A
XmNalignment	XmCAlignment	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNfontList	XmCFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CSG
XmNlabelInsensitivePixmap	XmCLabelInsensitivePixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNlabelPixmap	XmCLabelPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNlabelString	XmCXmString	XmString	dynamic	CSG
XmNlabelType	XmCLabelType	unsigned char	XmSTRING	CSG
XmNmarginBottom	XmCMarginBottom	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNmarginHeight	XmCMarginHeight	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNmarginLeft	XmCMarginLeft	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNmarginRight	XmCMarginRight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNmarginTop	XmCMarginTop	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNmarginWidth	XmCMarginWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
.wH
.tH
XmNmnemonic	XmCMnemonic	KeySym	NULL	CSG
XmNmnemonicCharSet	XmCMnemonicCharSet	String	XmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG	CSG
XmNrecomputeSize	XmCRecomputeSize	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNstringDirection	XmCStringDirection	XmStringDirection	dynamic	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmPrimitive Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightOnEnter	XmCHighlightOnEnter	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightThickness	XmCHighlightThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
.wH
.tH
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmNONE	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Callback Information"
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback:
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.1i
.nf
typedef struct
{
	int	\fBreason\fI;
	\fIXEvent	\fB* event\fI;
} XmAnyCallbackStruct;
.iE
.sE
.wH
.fi
.IP "\fBreason\fP"
Indicates why the callback was invoked.
.IP "\fBevent\fP"
Points to the \fIXEvent\fP that triggered the callback or is NULL
if this callback was not triggered due to an \fIXEvent\fP.
.SS "Translations"
XmCascadeButton includes translations from Primitive.
XmCascadeButton includes the menu traversal translations from XmLabel.
These translations may not directly correspond to a
translation table.
.PP 
.ne 2i
Note that altering translations in \fI#override\fP
or \fI#augment\fP mode is undefined.
.PP 
The translations for a CascadeButton in a MenuBar are listed below.
These translations may not directly correspond to a
translation table.
.iS
.ta 1.5i
.nf
BSelect Press:	MenuBarSelect()
BSelect Release:	DoSelect()
KActivate:	KeySelect()
KSelect:	KeySelect()
KHelp:	Help()
MAny KCancel:	CleanupMenuBar()
.wH
.fi
.iE
.PP 
The translations for a CascadeButton in a PullDown or Popup
MenuPane are listed below.
In a menu system, \fIBMenu\fP also performs the \fIBSelect\fP
actions.
These translations may not directly correspond to a
translation table.
.iS
.ta 1.5i
.nf
BSelect Press:	StartDrag()
BSelect Release:	DoSelect()
KActivate:	KeySelect()
KSelect:	KeySelect()
KHelp:	Help()
MAny KCancel:	CleanupMenuBar()
.wH
.fi
.iE
.SS "Action Routines"
The XmCascadeButton action routines are described below:
.IP "\fICleanupMenuBar()\fP:"
In a MenuBar, disarms the CascadeButton and the menu and,
when the shell's keyboard focus policy is \fIXmEXPLICT\fP,
restores
keyboard focus to the widget that had the focus before the menu was
entered.
.P
.ne 3.5i
In a toplevel Pulldown MenuPane from a MenuBar, unposts the menu,
disarms the MenuBar CascadeButton and the MenuBar, and,
when the shell's keyboard focus policy is \fIXmEXPLICT\fP,
restores keyboard
focus to the widget that had the focus before the MenuBar was
entered.
In other Pulldown MenuPanes, unposts the menu.
.P
In a Popup MenuPane, unposts the menu and,
when the shell's keyboard focus policy is \fIXmEXPLICT\fP,
restores keyboard focus to the
widget from which the menu was posted.
.IP "\fIDoSelect()\fP:"
Calls the callbacks in \fIXmNcascadingCallback\fP,
posts the submenu attached to the CascadeButton and
enables keyboard traversal within the menu.
If the CascadeButton does not have a submenu attached,
calls the callbacks in \fIXmNactivateCallback\fP,
the CascadeButton is activated and all posted menus in the cascade are
unposted.
.IP "\fIHelp()\fP:"
Unposts all menus in the menu hierarchy and,
when the shell's keyboard focus policy is \fIXmEXPLICT\fP,
restores keyboard focus to
the widget that had the focus before the menu system was entered.
Calls the callbacks for \fIXmNhelpCallback\fP if any exist.
If there are no help callbacks for this widget, this action calls the
help callbacks for the nearest ancestor that has them.
.IP "\fIKeySelect()\fP:"
Calls the callbacks in \fIXmNcascadingCallback\fP,
and posts the submenu attached to the CascadeButton if keyboard
traversal is enabled in the menu.
If the CascadeButton does not have a submenu attached,
calls the callbacks in \fIXmNactivateCallback\fP,
the CascadeButton is activated and all posted menus in the cascade are
unposted.
.IP "\fIMenuBarSelect()\fP:"
Unposts any menus posted by the parent menu.
Arms both the CascadeButton and the MenuBar,
posts the associated submenu, and enables mouse traversal.
If the menu is already active, this event
disables keyboard traversal for the menu and returns
the menu to mouse traversal mode.
.IP "\fIStartDrag()\fP:"
Arms the CascadeButton, posts the associated submenu, and enables mouse
traversal.
If the menu is already active, this event
disables keyboard traversal for the menu and returns
the menu to mouse traversal mode.
.nL
.ne 5
.SS "Additional Behavior"
Posting a submenu calls the \fIXmNcascadingCallback\fP callbacks.
This widget has the additional behavior described below:
.IP "\fI<EnterWindow>\fP:"
If keyboard traversal is enabled does nothing.
Otherwise, in a MenuBar that is armed,
unposts any MenuPanes associated with another MenuBar entry,
arms the CascadeButton, and posts the associated submenu.
In other menus,
arms the CascadeButton and posts the associated submenu after
the delay specified by \fIXmNmappingDelay\fP.
.IP "\fI<LeaveWindow>\fP:"
If keyboard traversal is enabled does nothing.
Otherwise, in a MenuBar that is armed,
disarms the CascadeButton
if the submenu associated with the CascadeButton is not currently
posted or if there is no submenu associated with the CascadeButton.
.P
In other menus,
if the pointer moves anywhere except into a submenu associated with the
CascadeButton, the CascadeButton is disarmed and its submenu is unposted.
.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fICore(3X)\fP, \fIXmCascadeButtonHighlight(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateCascadeButton(3X),XmCreateMenuBar(3X)\fP, \fIXmCreatePulldownMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmDisplay(3X)\fP,
\fIXmLabel(3X)\fP, \fIXmPrimitive(3X)\fP, and \fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.ad
