...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmChangeColor 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmChangeColor\fP \- Recalculates all associated colors of 
a widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmChangeColor (\fBwidget, background\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget		\fBwidget\fI;
	Pixel	\fBbackground\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmChangeColor\fP handles all color modifications for the 
specified widget when a new background pixel value is specified.
The function recalculates the foreground, select, and shadow
colors based on the new background color and sets the corresponding
resources for the widget.  If a color calculation procedure has
been set by a call to \fIXmSetColorCalculation\fP, \fIXmChangeColor\fP
uses that procedure to calculate the new colors.  Otherwise, the
routine uses a default procedure.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the widget ID whose colors will be updated
.IP "\fBpixel\fP"
Specifies the background color pixel value
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmGetColorCalculation(3X)\fP,
\fIXmGetColors(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmSetColorCalculation(3X)\fP.
.ad
