...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmClipboardEndCopy 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmClipboardEndCopy\fP \- A clipboard function that ends a copy to the clipboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int \fIXmClipboardEndCopy\fI (\fBdisplay, window, item_id\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Display	\fB* display\fI;
	Window	\fBwindow\fI;
	long	\fBitem_id\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmClipboardEndCopy\fP locks the clipboard from access by other applications,
places data in the clipboard data structure, and unlocks the clipboard.
Data items copied to the clipboard by \fIXmClipboardCopy\fP are not actually
entered in the clipboard data structure until the call to
\fIXmClipboardEndCopy\fP.
.PP 
This function also frees up temporary storage that was allocated by
\fIXmClipboardStartCopy\fP, which must be called before
\fIXmClipboardEndCopy\fP.  The latter function should not be called if
\fIXmClipboardCancelCopy\fP has been called.
.nL
.ne 7
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the \fIDisplay\fP structure that was returned in a
previous call to \fIXOpenDisplay\fP or \fIXtDisplay\fP.
.IP "\fBwindow\fP"
Specifies a widget's window ID that relates the application window to the
clipboard.  The widget's window ID can be obtained by using
\fIXtWindow\fP.
The same application instance should pass the same window ID to each
clipboard function it calls.
.IP "\fBitem_id\fP"
Specifies the number assigned to this data item.  This number was returned
by a previous call to \fIXmClipboardStartCopy\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.IP "\fIClipboardSuccess\fP"
The function is successful.
.IP "\fIClipboardLocked\fP"
The function failed because the clipboard was locked by another
application.  The application can continue to call the function again with
the same parameters until the lock goes away.  This gives the application
the opportunity to ask if the user wants to keep trying or to give up
on the operation.
.IP "\fIClipboardFail\fP"
The function failed because \fIXmClipboardStartCopy\fP was not called.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmClipboardCancelCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmClipboardCopy(3X)\fP and \fIXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\fP.
.ad
