'\" t
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCommand 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCommand\fP \- The Command widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Command.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Command is a special-purpose composite widget for command
entry that provides a built-in command-history mechanism.
Command includes a command-line text-input field, a command-line prompt,
and a command-history list region.
.PP 
One additional \fIWorkArea\fP child may be added to the Command after
creation.
.PP 
Whenever a command is entered, it is
automatically added to the end of the command-history list and made visible.
This does not change the selected item in the list, if there is one.
.PP 
Many of the new resources specified for Command are actually SelectionBox
resources that have been renamed for clarity and ease of use.
.nL
.ne 10
.SS "Classes"
Command inherits behavior and resources from \fICore\fP,
\fIComposite\fP, \fIConstraint\fP, \fIXmManager\fP,
\fIXmBulletinBoard\fP, and \fIXmSelectionBox\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIxmCommandWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXmCommand\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmCommand Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNcommand	XmCTextString	XmString	""	CSG
XmNcommandChangedCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNcommandEnteredCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhistoryItems	XmCItems	XmStringTable	NULL	CSG
XmNhistoryItemCount	XmCItemCount	int	0	CSG
XmNhistoryMaxItems	XmCMaxItems	int	100	CSG
XmNhistoryVisibleItemCount	XmCVisibleItemCount	int	dynamic	CSG
XmNpromptString	XmCPromptString	XmString	dynamic	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.IP "\fIXmNcommand\fP"
Contains the current command-line text.  This is the \fIXmNtextString\fP
resource in SelectionBox, renamed for Command.
This resource can also be modified via
\fIXmCommandSetValue\fP and \fIXmCommandAppendValue\fP functions.
The command area is a Text widget.
.IP "\fIXmNcommandChangedCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called
when the value of the command changes.
The callback reason is \fIXmCR_COMMAND_CHANGED\fP.
This is equivalent to the \fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP of the Text
widget, except that a pointer to an \fIXmCommandCallbackStructure\fP is
passed, and the structure's \fBvalue\fP member contains the
\fIXmString\fP.
.nL
.ne 8
.IP "\fIXmNcommandEnteredCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called
when a command is entered in the Command.
The callback reason is \fIXmCR_COMMAND_ENTERED\fP.  A pointer to an
\fIXmCommandCallback\fP structure is passed.
.IP "\fIXmNhistoryItems\fP"
Lists \fIXmString\fP items that make up the contents
of the history list.  This is the \fIXmNlistItems\fP resource in
SelectionBox, renamed for Command.
\fIXtGetValues\fP for this resource returns the list items themselves,
not a copy of the list items.
The application must not free the returned items.
.IP "\fIXmNhistoryItemCount\fP"
Specifies the number of \fIXmStrings\fP in \fIXmNhistoryItems\fP.  This is
the \fIXmNlistItemCount\fP resource in SelectionBox, renamed for Command.
The value must not be negative.
.IP "\fIXmNhistoryMaxItems\fP"
Specifies the maximum number of items allowed in the history list.  Once
this number is reached, an existing list item must be removed before
a new item can be added to the list.  For each command entered, the first list
item is removed from the list, so the new command can be added to the list.
The value must be greater than 0.
.IP "\fIXmNhistoryVisibleItemCount\fP"
Specifies the number of items in the history list that should be visible at
one time.  In effect, it sets the height (in lines) of the history list
window.  This is the \fIXmNlistVisibleItemCount\fP resource in SelectionBox,
renamed for Command.
The value must be greater than 0.
The default is dynamic based on the height of the list.
.IP "\fIXmNpromptString\fP"
Specifies a prompt for the command line.
This is the \fIXmNselectionLabelString\fP
resource in SelectionBox, renamed for Command.
The default may vary depending on the value of the
\fIXmNstringDirection\fP resource and the locale.
In the C locale the default is ">".
.SS "Inherited Resources"
Command inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmSelectionBox Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNapplyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	N/A
XmNapplyLabelString	XmCApplyLabelString	XmString	dynamic	N/A
XmNcancelCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	N/A
XmNcancelLabelString	XmCCancelLabelString	XmString	dynamic 	N/A
XmNchildPlacement	XmCChildPlacement	unsigned char	XmPLACE_ABOVE_SELECTION	CSG
XmNdialogType	XmCDialogType	unsigned char	XmDIALOG_COMMAND 	G
XmNhelpLabelString	XmCHelpLabelString	XmString	dynamic 	N/A
XmNlistItemCount	XmCItemCount	int	0 	CSG
XmNlistItems	XmCItems	XmStringTable	NULL	CSG
XmNlistLabelString	XmCListLabelString	XmString	NULL	N/A
XmNlistVisibleItemCount	XmCVisibleItemCount	int	dynamic 	CSG
XmNminimizeButtons	XmCMinimizeButtons	Boolean	False	N/A
XmNmustMatch	XmCMustMatch	Boolean	False 	N/A
XmNnoMatchCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	N/A
.wH
.tH
XmNokCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	N/A
XmNokLabelString	XmCOkLabelString	XmString	dynamic	N/A
XmNselectionLabelString	XmCSelectionLabelString	XmString	dynamic	CSG
XmNtextAccelerators	XmCTextAccelerators	XtAccelerators	default	C
XmNtextColumns	XmCColumns	short	dynamic	CSG
XmNtextString	XmCTextString	XmString	""	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmBulletinBoard Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNallowOverlap	XmCAllowOverlap	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNautoUnmanage	XmCAutoUnmanage	Boolean	False	N/A
XmNbuttonFontList	XmCButtonFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	N/A
XmNcancelButton	XmCWidget	Widget	NULL	N/A
XmNdefaultButton	XmCWidget	Widget	NULL	N/A
XmNdefaultPosition	XmCDefaultPosition	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNdialogStyle	XmCDialogStyle	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNdialogTitle	XmCDialogTitle	XmString	NULL	CSG
XmNfocusCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNlabelFontList	XmCLabelFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CSG
XmNmapCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNmarginHeight	XmCMarginHeight	Dimension	10	CSG
XmNmarginWidth	XmCMarginWidth	Dimension	10 	CSG
XmNnoResize	XmCNoResize	Boolean	False	CSG
.wH
.tH
XmNresizePolicy	XmCResizePolicy	unsigned char	XmRESIZE_NONE	CSG
XmNshadowType	XmCShadowType	unsigned char	XmSHADOW_OUT	CSG
XmNtextFontList	XmCTextFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	CSG
XmNtextTranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	NULL	C
XmNunmapCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmManager Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialFocus	XmCInitialFocus	Widget	dynamic	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmTAB_GROUP	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNstringDirection	XmCStringDirection	XmStringDirection	dynamic	CG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Composite Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	N/A
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Callback Information"
.P 
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback:
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.1i
.nf
typedef struct
{
	int	\fBreason\fI;
	XEvent	\fB* event\fI;
	XmString	\fBvalue\fI;
	int	\fBlength\fI;
} XmCommandCallbackStruct;
.iE
.sE
.wH
.fi
.IP "\fBreason\fP"
Indicates why the callback was invoked
.IP "\fBevent\fP"
Points to the \fIXEvent\fP that triggered the callback
.IP "\fBvalue\fP"
Specifies the \fIXmString\fP in the CommandArea
.IP "\fBlength\fP"
Specifies the size of the command in \fIXmString\fP
.SS "Translations"
XmCommand inherits translations from XmSelectionBox.
.SS "Accelerators"
The \fIXmNtextAccelerators\fP from XmSelectionBox are added to the Text
descendant of XmCommand.
.SS "Action Routines"
The XmCommand action routines are described below:
.IP "\fISelectionBoxUpOrDown(0|1|2|3)\fP:"
When called with a 0 argument, selects the previous item in the history
list and replaces the text with that item.
.P
When called with a 1 argument, selects the next item in the history
list and replaces the text with that item.
.P
When called with a 2 argument, selects the first item in the history
list and replaces the text with that item.
.P
When called with a 3 argument, selects the last item in the history
list and replaces the text with that item.
.P
Calls the callbacks for \fIXmNcommandChangedCallback\fP.
.SS "Additional Behavior"
The Command widget has the additional behavior described below:
.IP "\fIMAny KCancel\fP:"
If the parent of the Command is a manager, the event is passed to the parent.
.IP "\fIKActivate\fP\ in\ Text:"
Calls the Text widget's \fIXmNactivateCallback\fP callbacks.
If the text is empty, this action then returns.
Otherwise, if the history list has \fIXmNhistoryMaxItems\fP items, it
removes the first item in
the list.
.ne 6
It adds the text to the history list as the last item, clears the text,
and calls the \fIXmNcommandEnteredCallback\fP callbacks.
.IP "\fI<Key>\fP\ in\ Text:"
When any change is made to the text edit widget, this action
calls the callbacks for
\fIXmNcommandChangedCallback\fP.
.IP "\fI<DoubleClick>\fP\ or\ \fI<KActivate>\fP\ in\ List:"
Calls the List widget's \fIXmNdefaultActionCallback\fP callbacks.
If the history list has \fIXmNhistoryMaxItems\fP items, this action
removes the first item in the list.
It adds the selected List item to the history list as the last item,
clears the text, and calls the \fIXmNcommandEnteredCallback\fP
callbacks.
.IP "\fI<FocusIn>\fP:"
Calls the callbacks for \fIXmNfocusCallback\fP.
.IP "\fI<MapWindow>\fP:"
When a Command that is the child of a DialogShell is mapped, this action
calls the callbacks for \fIXmNmapCallback\fP.
.IP "\fI<UnmapWindow>\fP:"
When a Command that is the child of a DialogShell is unmapped, this
action calls the
callbacks for \fIXmNunmapCallback\fP.
.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIComposite(3X)\fP, \fIConstraint(3X)\fP,
\fICore(3X)\fP,
\fIXmBulletinBoard(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCommandAppendValue(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCommandError(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCommandGetChild(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCommandSetValue(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateCommand(3X)\fP,
\fIXmManager(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
