...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateMessageBox 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateMessageBox\fP \- The MessageBox widget creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateMessageBox (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateMessageBox\fP creates an unmanaged MessageBox.
A MessageBox is used for common interaction tasks, which include giving
information, asking questions, and reporting errors.
It includes an optional symbol, a message, and three buttons.
.PP 
By default, there is no symbol.  The default button labels are \fIOK\fP,
\fICancel\fP, and \fIHelp\fP.
.PP 
If the parent of the MessageBox is a DialogShell, use \fIXtManageChild\fP to
pop up the MessageBox (passing the MessageBox as the widget parameter); use
\fIXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
