...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateRowColumn 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateRowColumn\fP \- The RowColumn widget creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateRowColumn (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateRowColumn\fP creates an instance of a
RowColumn widget and returns the associated widget ID.  If
\fIXmNrowColumnType\fP is not specified, then it is created with
\fIXmWORK_AREA\fP, which is the default.
.PP 
If this function is used to create a Popup Menu of type
\fIXmMENU_POPUP\fP or a Pulldown Menu of type \fIXmMENU_PULLDOWN\fP,
a MenuShell widget is not automatically created as the parent of the
MenuPane.  The application must first create the MenuShell by using either
\fIXmCreateMenuShell\fP or the standard toolkit create function.
.nL
.ne 7
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the RowColumn widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmCreateMenuBar(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateMenuShell(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateOptionMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreatePulldownMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateRadioBox(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimpleCheckBox(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimpleMenuBar(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimpleOptionMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimplePopupMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimplePulldownMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateSimpleRadioBox(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateWorkArea(3X)\fP,
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP,
\fIXmVaCreateSimpleCheckBox(3X)\fP,
\fIXmVaCreateSimpleMenuBar(3X)\fP,
\fIXmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmVaCreateSimplePopupMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmVaCreateSimplePulldownMenu(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmVaCreateSimpleRadioBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
