...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateErrorDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateErrorDialog\fP \- The MessageBox ErrorDialog convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateErrorDialog (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateErrorDialog\fP is a convenience creation
function that creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged MessageBox child
of the DialogShell.
An ErrorDialog warns the user of an invalid or potentially
dangerous condition.
It includes a symbol, a message, and three buttons.
The default symbol is an octagon with a diagonal slash.  The default
button labels are \fIOK\fP, \fICancel\fP, and \fIHelp\fP.
.PP 
Use \fIXtManageChild\fP to pop up the ErrorDialog (passing the MessageBox
as the widget parameter); use \fIXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
