...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateFileSelectionDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateFileSelectionDialog\fP \- The FileSelectionBox FileSelectionDialog convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/FileSB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateFileSelectionDialog (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateFileSelectionDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that
creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged FileSelectionBox child of the
DialogShell.
A FileSelectionDialog selects a file.
It includes the following:
.TP
\(bu
An editable text field for the directory mask
.TP
\(bu
A scrolling list of filenames
.TP
\(bu
An editable text field for the selected file
.TP
\(bu
Labels for the list and text fields
.TP
\(bu
Four buttons
.PP 
.ne 6
The default button labels are:
\fIOK\fP, \fIFilter\fP, \fICancel\fP, and \fIHelp\fP.  One additional
\fIWorkArea\fP child may be added to the FileSelectionBox after creation.
.PP 
Use \fIXtManageChild\fP to pop up the FileSelectionDialog (passing the
FileSelectionBox
as the widget parameter); use \fIXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of FileSelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fIXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the FileSelectionBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
