...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreatePopupMenu 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu\fP \- A RowColumn widget convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreatePopupMenu (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu\fP creates an instance of a RowColumn widget
of type \fIXmMENU_POPUP\fP and returns
the associated widget ID.  When using this function to create the Popup
MenuPane, a MenuShell widget is automatically created as the parent of
the MenuPane.
The parent of the MenuShell widget is the widget indicated by the
\fBparent\fP parameter.
.PP 
\fIXmCreatePopupMenu\fP is
provided as a convenience function for creating RowColumn
widgets configured to operate as Popup MenuPanes and is not implemented as
a separate widget class.
.PP 
The PopupMenu is used as the first MenuPane within a PopupMenu system;
all other
MenuPanes are of the Pulldown type.  A Popup MenuPane displays a
3-D shadow, unless the feature is disabled by the application.
The shadow appears around the edge of the MenuPane.
.PP 
The Popup MenuPane must be created as the child of a MenuShell widget in
order to function properly when it is incorporated into a menu.
If the application uses this convenience function for creating a
Popup MenuPane, the MenuShell is automatically created as the real
parent of the MenuPane.
If the application does not use this convenience function to create the
RowColumn to function as a Popup MenuPane,
it is the application's responsibility to create the
MenuShell widget.
.PP 
To access the PopupMenu, the application must first position the
widget using the
\fIXmMenuPosition\fP function and then manage it using \fIXtManageChild\fP.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
Popup MenuPanes support tear-off capabilities 
for tear-off menus through \fIXmRowColumn\fP
resources.
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.P 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the RowColumn widget ID.
.P 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmCreateSimplePopupMenu(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMenuPosition(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMenuShell(3X)\fP,
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmVaCreateSimplePopupMenu(3X)\fP.
.ad
