...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateWorkingDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateWorkingDialog\fP \- The MessageBox WorkingDialog convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateWorkingDialog (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateWorkingDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that
creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged MessageBox child of the DialogShell.
A WorkingDialog informs users that there is a time-consuming
operation in progress and allows them to cancel the
operation.
It includes a symbol, a message, and three buttons.
The default symbol is an hourglass.  The default button labels are
\fIOK\fP, \fICancel\fP, and \fIHelp\fP.
.PP 
Use \fIXtManageChild\fP to pop up the WorkingDialog (passing the
MessageBox as the widget parameter);
use \fIXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
