...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmCreateSelectionDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmCreateSelectionDialog\fP \- The SelectionBox SelectionDialog convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/SelectioB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateSelectionDialog (\fBparent, name, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBparent\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	ArgList	\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmCreateSelectionDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that creates
a DialogShell and an unmanaged SelectionBox child of the DialogShell.
A SelectionDialog offers the user a choice from a list of alternatives
and gets a selection.
It includes the following:
.TP
\(bu
A scrolling list of alternatives
.TP
\(bu
An editable text field for the selected alternative
.TP
\(bu
Labels for the text field
.TP
\(bu
Four buttons
.PP 
The default button labels are \fIOK\fP, \fICancel\fP, \fIApply\fP,
and \fIHelp\fP.
One additional \fIWorkArea\fP child may be added to the
SelectionBox after creation.
.PP 
\fIXmCreateSelectionDialog\fP forces the value of the SelectionBox resource
\fIXmNdialogType\fP to \fIXmDIALOG_SELECTION\fP.
.PP 
Use \fIXtManageChild\fP to pop up the SelectionDialog (passing the
SelectionBox as the widget parameter);
use \fIXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fBparent\fP"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fBarglist\fP)
.PP 
For a complete definition of SelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fIXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the SelectionBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
