...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDestroyPixmap 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDestroyPixmap\fP \- A pixmap caching function that removes a pixmap from the pixmap cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmDestroyPixmap (\fBscreen, pixmap\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Screen	\fB* screen\fI;
	Pixmap	\fBpixmap\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDestroyPixmap\fP removes pixmaps that are no longer used.
Pixmaps are completely freed only when there is no further reference to them.
.IP "\fBscreen\fP"
Specifies the display screen for which the pixmap was requested
.IP "\fBpixmap\fP"
Specifies the pixmap to be destroyed
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True when successful; returns False if there is no matching screen
and pixmap in the pixmap cache.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmInstallImage(3X)\fP, \fIXmUninstallImage(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmGetPixmap(3X)\fP.
.ad
