...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDropSiteQueryStackingOrder 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDropSiteQueryStackingOrder\fP \- A Drag and Drop function that 
returns the parent, a list of children, and the number of children
for a specified widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Status XmDropSiteQueryStackingOrder (\fBwidget, parent_return, child_returns, num_child_returns\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget		\fBwidget\fI;
	Widget		*\fBparent_return\fI;
	Widget		**\fBchild_returns\fI;
	Cardinal	*\fBnum_child_returns\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDropSiteQueryStackingOrder\fP obtains the parent, a list of
children registered as drop sites, and the number of children registered
as drop sites for a given widget.  The children are listed in current
stacking order, from bottom-most (first child) to the top-most (last
child).  This function allocates memory for the returned data that
must be freed by calling \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the widget ID.  For this widget, you obtain the list
of its children, its parent, and the number of children.
.IP "\fBparent_return\fP"
Returns the widget ID of the drop site parent of the
specified widget.
.IP "\fBchild_returns\fP"
Returns a pointer to the list of drop site children associated with
the specified widget.
.IP "\fBnum_child_returns\fP"
Returns the number of drop site children for the specified widget.
.PP
For a complete definition of DropSite and its associated resources,
see \fIXmDropSite(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns zero if the routine fails; returns a nonzero
value if it succeeds.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDropSite(3X)\fP and
\fIXmDropSiteConfigureStackingOrder(3X)\fP.
.ad
