...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDropSiteRetrieve 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDropSiteRetrieve\fP \- A Drag and Drop function that retrieves
resource values set on a drop site
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmDropSiteRetrieve (\fBwidget, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget		\fBwidget\fI;
	ArgList		\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDropSiteRetrieve\fP extracts values for the given
resources from the drop site specified by \fBwidget\fP.
An initiator can also obtain information about the current drop
site by passing the associated DragContext widget as the \fBwidget\fP
parameter to this routine.  The initiator can retrieve all
of the drop site resources except \fIXmNdragProc\fP and
\fIXmNdropProc\fP using this method.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the widget that encloses the drop site.
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list.
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument
list (\fBarglist\fP).
.PP
For a complete definition of DropSite and its associated resources,
see \fIXmDropSite(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDropSite(3X)\fP and
\fIXmDropSiteUpdate(3X)\fP.
.ad
