...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDropTransferStart 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDropTransferStart\fP \- A Drag and Drop function that initiates a
drop transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmDropTransferStart (\fBwidget, arglist, argcount\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget		\fBwidget\fI;
	ArgList		\fBarglist\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBargcount\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDropTransferStart\fP initiates a drop transfer and uses the
specified argument list to initialize an \fIXmDropTransfer\fP object.
The DropTransfer object can be manipulated with \fIXtSetValues\fP
and \fIXtGetValues\fP until the last call to the \fIXmNtransferProc\fP
procedure is made.  After that point, the result of using the
widget pointer is undefined.  The DropTransfer object is freed
by the toolkit when a transfer is complete.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the DragContext widget associated with the
transaction
.IP "\fBarglist\fP"
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fBargcount\fP"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument
list (\fBarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of DropTransfer and its associated resources,
see \fIXmDropTransfer(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the ID of the DropTransfer widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDragContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmDropTransfer(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmDropTransferAdd(3X)\fP.
.ad
