...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDropSiteEndUpdate 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDropSiteEndUpdate\fP \- A Drag and Drop function that facilitates
processing updates to multiple drop sites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmDropSiteEndUpdate (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	Widget		\fBwidget\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDropSiteEndUpdate\fP is used in conjunction with
\fIXmDropSiteStartUpdate\fP to process updates to
multiple drop sites within the same hierarchy.  \fIXmDropSiteStartUpdate\fP
and \fIXmDropSiteEndUpdate\fP signal the beginning and
the end respectively of a series of calls to \fIXmDropSiteUpdate\fP.
Calls to \fIXmDropSiteStartUpdate\fP and \fIXmDropSiteEndUpdate\fP can
be recursively stacked.  Using these routines optimizes the processing
of update information.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of any widget within a given hierarchy.  The function
uses this widget to identify the shell that contains the drop sites.
.PP
For a complete definition of DropSite and its associated resources,
see \fIXmDropSite(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDropSiteStartUpdate(3X)\fP and
\fIXmDropSiteUpdate(3X)\fP.
.ad
