...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmDropTransferAdd 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmDropTransferAdd\fP \- A Drag and Drop function that enables
additional drop transfer entries to be processed after initiating
a drop transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmDropTransferAdd (\fBdrop_transfer, transfers, num_transfers\fI)
.ta .5i 2.25i
.nf
	Widget		\fBdrop_transfer\fI;
	XmDropTransferEntryRec		*\fBtransfers\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBnum_transfers\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmDropTransferAdd\fP identifies a list of additional drop transfer
entries to be processed after a drop transfer is started.
.IP "\fBdrop_transfer\fP"
Specifies the ID of the DropTransfer widget returned by
\fIXmDropTransferStart\fP
.IP "\fBtransfers\fP"
Specifies the additional drop transfer entries that the receiver
wants processed
.IP "\fBnum_transfers\fP"
Specifies the number of items in the \fBtransfers\fP array
.PP
For a complete definition of DropTransfer and its associated resources,
see \fIXmDropTransfer(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDragContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmDropTransfer(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmDropTransferStart(3X).
.ad
