...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFileSelectionDoSearch 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFileSelectionDoSearch\fP \- A FileSelectionBox function that initiates a directory search
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/FileSB.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmFileSelectionDoSearch (\fBwidget, dirmask\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	\fBdirmask\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFileSelectionDoSearch\fP initiates a directory and file search in a
FileSelectionBox widget.
For a description of the actions that the FileSelectionBox takes when
doing a search, see \fIXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the FileSelectionBox widget ID.
.IP "\fBdirmask\fP"
Specifies the directory mask used in determining the directories and
files displayed in the FileSelectionBox lists.
This value is used as the \fBmask\fP member of the input data
\fIXmFileSelectionBoxCallbackStruct\fP structure passed to the
FileSelectionBox's \fIXmNqualifySearchDataProc\fP.
The \fBdir\fP and \fBpattern\fP members of that structure are NULL.
.PP 
For a complete definition of FileSelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fIXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.ad
