...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListEntryGetFont 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListEntryGetFont\fP \- A font list function 
that retrieves font information from a font list entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XtPointer XmFontListEntryGetFont (\fBentry, type_return\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmFontListEntry	\fBentry\fI;
	XmFontType	*\fBtype_return\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListEntryGetFont\fP retrieves font information for a
specified font list entry.  If the font list entry contains
a font, \fBtype_return\fP returns \fIXmFONT_IS_FONT\fP and the
function returns a pointer to an \fIXFontStruct\fP.  If the font list
entry contains a font set, \fBtype_return\fP returns
\fIXmFONT_IS_FONTSET\fP and the function returns the \fIXFontSet\fP.
.IP "\fBentry\fP"
Specifies the font list entry.
.IP "\fBtype_return\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the type of the font element for the current
entry.  Valid values are \fIXmFONT_IS_FONT\fP and
\fIXmFONT_IS_FONTSET\fP.
.PP
The returned \fIXFontSet\fP or \fIXFontStruct\fP is not a copy of the 
toolkit data and must not be freed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an \fIXFontSet\fP or a pointer to an \fIXFontStruct\fP structure.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetTag(3X)\fP
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmFontListNextEntry(3X)\fP.
.ad
