...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListNextEntry 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListNextEntry\fP \- A font list function that returns
the next entry in a font list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmFontListEntry XmFontListNextEntry (\fBcontext\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmFontContext	\fBcontext\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListNextEntry\fP returns the next entry in the
font list.  The application uses the \fIXmFontListInitFontContext\fP
routine to create a font list context.  The first call to
\fIXmFontListNextEntry\fP sets the context to the first entry
in the font list.  The application then calls \fIXmFontListNextEntry\fP
repeatedly with the same context.  Each succeeding call accesses
the next entry of the font list.  When finished, the application
calls \fIXmFontListFreeFontContext\fP to free the allocated font
list context.
.IP "\fBcontext\fP"
Specifies the font list context
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns NULL if the context does not refer to a valid entry or if
it is at the end of the font list; otherwise, it returns a font list entry.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetFont(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetTag(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListFreeFontContext(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmFontListInitFontContext(3X)\fP.
.ad
