...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListCreate\fP \- A font list function that creates a font list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmFontList XmFontListCreate (\fBfont, charset\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XFontStruct	\fB* font\fI;
	XmStringCharSet	\fBcharset\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListCreate\fP creates a new font list with a single element specified
by the provided font and character set.  It also allocates the space for
the font list.
.PP
\fINote:\fP This function is obsolete and exists for compatibility
with previous releases.  It is replaced by \fIXmFontListAppendEntry\fP.
.IP "\fBfont\fP"
Specifies a pointer to a font structure for which the new font list is
generated.  This is the structure returned by the XLib \fIXLoadQueryFont\fP
function.
.nL
.ne 15
.IP "\fBcharset\fP"
Specifies the character set identifier for the font.
This can be \fIXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, but this value does not
comply with the AES, and it may be removed in future versions of Motif.
If the value
.ne 4
is \fIXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, the routine derives the
character set from the current language environment.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns NULL if
\fBfont\fP
or
\fBcharset\fP
is NULL; otherwise, returns a new font list.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP and
\fIXmFontListAppendEntry(3X)\fP.
.ad
