...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListRemoveEntry 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListRemoveEntry\fP \- A font list function that removes a font list entry from a font list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmFontList XmFontListRemoveEntry (\fBoldlist, entry\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmFontList	\fBoldlist\fI;
	XmFontListEntry	\fBentry\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListRemoveEntry\fP creates a new font list
that contains the contents of \fBoldlist\fP
minus those entries specified in \fBentry\fP.
The routine removes any entries from \fBoldlist\fP
that match the components (tag, type font/font set)
of the specified entry.  The function deallocates the  
original font list after extracting the required
information.  The caller uses \fIXmFontListEntryFree\fP
to recover memory allocated for the specified entry.  This
routine does not free the \fIXFontSet\fP or \fIXFontStruct\fP associated
with the font list entry that is removed.
.IP "\fBoldlist\fP"
Specifies the font list
.IP "\fBentry\fP"
Specifies the font list entry to be removed
.SH RETURN VALUE
If \fBoldlist\fP is NULL, the function returns NULL.  If
\fBentry\fP is NULL or no entries are removed,  the  function
returns \fBoldlist\fP.  Otherwise, it returns a new font list.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListAppendEntry(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmFontListFree(3X)\fP.
.ad
