...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListEntryLoad 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad\fP \- A font list function that loads
a font or creates a font set and creates an accompanying font list entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmFontListEntry XmFontListEntryLoad (\fBdisplay, font_name, type, tag\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Display	*\fBdisplay\fI;
	char	*\fBfont_name\fI;
	XmFontType	\fBtype\fI;
	char	*\fBtag\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad\fP loads a font or creates a font set 
based on the value of the \fBtype\fP argument.  It creates and returns
a font list entry that contains the font or font set and the
specified tag.
.PP
If the value of \fBtype\fP is \fIXmFONT_IS_FONT\fP, the function uses
the \fIXtCvtStringToFontStruct\fP routine to convert the value of
\fBfont_name\fP to a font struct.
If the value of \fBtype\fP is \fIXmFONT_IS_FONTSET\fP, the function uses
the \fIXtCvtStringToFontSet\fP converter to create a font set in the
current locale.
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad\fP creates a font list entry that contains the
font or font set derived from the converter.
For more information about \fIXtCvtStringToFontStruct\fP and
\fIXtCvtStringToFontSet\fP, see \*EX Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language
Interface.\fP
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the display where the font list will be used.
.IP "\fBfont_name\fP"
Specifies an X Logical Font Description (XLFD) string,
which is interpreted either as a font name or as a base font name
list. 
A base font name list is a comma-separated and NULL-terminated string.
.IP "\fBtype\fP"
Specifies whether the \fBfont_name\fP argument refers to a font name or
to a base font name list.
Valid values are \fIXmFONT_IS_FONT\fP and \fIXmFONT_IS_FONTSET\fP.
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies the tag of the font list entry to be created.
The tag may be specified as \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP.
\fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP is used to identify the default font list
element in a font list when specified as part of a resource.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the specified font is not found, or the specified font set can 
not be created, returns NULL; otherwise, returns a font list entry.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListAppendEntry(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetFont(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetTag(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmFontListRemoveEntry(3X)\fP.
.ad
