...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFontListEntryCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFontListEntryCreate\fP \- A font list function that creates a font list entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmFontListEntry XmFontListEntryCreate (\fBtag, type, font\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	char	*\fBtag\fI;
	XmFontType	\fBtype\fI;
	XtPointer	\fBfont\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmFontListEntryCreate\fP creates a font list entry that
contains either a font or font set and is identified by a tag.
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies a NULL terminated string for the tag of the font
list entry.  The tag may be specified as \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP,
which is used to identify the default font list element in a
font list.
.IP "\fBtype\fP"
Specifies whether the \fBfont\fP argument is a font structure or
a font set.  Valid values are \fIXmFONT_IS_FONT\fP and
\fIXmFONT_IS_FONTSET\fP.
.IP "\fBfont\fP"
Specifies either an \fIXFontSet\fP returned by \fIXCreateFontSet\fP or
a pointer to an \fIXFontStruct\fP returned by \fIXLoadQueryFont\fP.
.PP
The toolkit does not copy the X Font structure specified by the
\fBfont\fP argument.  Therefore, an application programmer must not
free \fIXFontStruct\fP or \fIXFontSet\fP until all font lists and/or font
entries that reference it have been freed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a font list entry.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListAppendEntry(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetFont(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetTag(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmFontListRemoveEntry(3X)\fP.
.ad
