'\" t
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmFrame 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmFrame\fP \- The Frame widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Frame.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
Frame is a very simple manager used to enclose a single work
area child in a border drawn by Frame.
It uses the Manager class resources for border drawing and performs
geometry management so that its size always matches its child's outer size
plus the Frame's margins and shadow thickness.
.PP 
Frame is most often used to enclose other managers when the
application developer desires the manager to have the same border
appearance as the primitive widgets.  Frame can also be
used to enclose primitive widgets that do not support the same
type of border drawing.  This gives visual consistency when
you develop applications using diverse widget sets.
Constraint resources are used to designate a child as the Frame title,
align its text, and control its vertical alignment in relation to
Frame's top shadow.  The title appears only at the top of the Frame.
.PP 
If the Frame's parent is a Shell widget,
\fIXmNshadowType\fP defaults to \fIXmSHADOW_OUT\fP, and
Manager's resource \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP defaults to 1.
.P 
If the Frame's parent is not a Shell widget,
\fIXmNshadowType\fP defaults to \fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP, and
Manager's resource \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP defaults to 2.
.SS "Classes"
Frame inherits behavior and
resources from the \fICore\fP, \fIComposite\fP,
\fIConstraint\fP, and \fIXmManager\fP classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \fIxmFrameWidgetClass\fP.
.PP 
The class name is \fIXmFrame\fP.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXmN\fP or
\fIXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fIXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \fIXtSetValues\fP (S),
retrieved by using \fIXtGetValues\fP (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmFrame Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNmarginWidth	XmCMarginWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNmarginHeight	XmCMarginHeight	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNshadowType	XmCShadowType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.nL
.ne 6
.IP "\fIXmNmarginWidth\fP"
Specifies the padding space on the left and right
sides between Frame's child and Frame's shadow drawing.
.IP "\fIXmNmarginHeight\fP"
Specifies the padding space on the top and bottom
sides between Frame's child and Frame's shadow drawing.
When a title is present, the top margin equals the value
specified by this resource plus the distance (if any) that the
title extends below the top shadow.
.IP "\fIXmNshadowType\fP"
Describes the drawing style for Frame.  This resource can have the
following values:
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_IN\fP \- draws Frame so that it appears inset.
This means that the bottom shadow visuals and top shadow visuals
are reversed.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_OUT\fP \- draws Frame so that it appears outset.
This is the default if Frame's parent is a Shell widget.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP \- draws Frame using a double line giving the
effect of a line etched into the window.  The thickness of the double
line is equal to the value of \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP.
This is the default when Frame's parent is not a Shell widget.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP \- draws Frame using a double line giving the
effect of a line coming out of the window.  The thickness of the double
line is equal to the value of \fIXmNshadowThickness\fP.
.PP
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmFrame Constraint Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildType	XmCChildType	unsigned char	XmFRAME_WORKAREA_CHILD	CSG
XmNchildHorizontalAlignment	XmCChildHorizontalAlignment	unsigned char	XmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING	CSG
XmNchildHorizontalSpacing	XmCChildHorizontalSpacing	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNchildVerticalAlignment	XmCChildVerticalAlignment	unsigned char	XmALIGNMENT_CENTER	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.IP "\fIXmNchildType\fP"
Specifies whether a child is a title or work area.  Frame supports
a single title and/or work area child.  The possible
values are:
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmFRAME_TITLE_CHILD\fP
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmFRAME_WORKAREA_CHILD\fP
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmFRAME_GENERIC_CHILD\fP
.PP
The Frame geometry manager ignores any child of type
\fIXmFRAME_GENERIC_CHILD\fP.
.IP "\fIXmNchildHorizontalAlignment\fP"
Specifies the alignment of the title.  This resource has the
following values:
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING\fP
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_CENTER\fP
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_END\fP
.PP
See the description of  \fIXmNalignment\fP in the \fIXmLabel\fP
man page for an explanation of these values.
.IP "\fIXmNchildHorizontalSpacing\fP"
Specifies the minimum distance between either edge of the title text
and the inner edge of the Frame shadow.  Clipping of the title
text occurs in order to maintain this spacing.  The default value
is the margin width of the Frame.
.IP "\fIXmNchildVerticalAlignment\fP"
Specifies the vertical alignment of the title text, or the title
area in relation to the top shadow of the Frame.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_BASELINE_BOTTOM\fP \- causes the baseline of the
title to align vertically with the
top shadow of the Frame.  In the case of a multi-line title,
the baseline of the last line of text aligns vertically with
the top shadow of the Frame.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_BASELINE_TOP\fP \- causes the baseline of the first
line of the title to align vertically with the top shadow
of the Frame.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_WIDGET_TOP\fP \- causes the top edge of the title
area to align vertically with the top shadow of the Frame.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_CENTER\fP \- causes the center of the title
area to align vertically with the top shadow of the Frame.
.TP
\(bu
\fIXmALIGNMENT_WIDGET_BOTTOM\fP \- causes the bottom edge of the title
area to align vertically with the top shadow of the Frame.
.SS "Inherited Resources"
Frame inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.P
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
XmManager Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	XmCBottomShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmCBottomShadowPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNforeground	XmCForeground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightColor	XmCHighlightColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNhighlightPixmap	XmCHighlightPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialFocus	XmCInitialFocus	Widget	NULL	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmTAB_GROUP	CSG
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNstringDirection	XmCStringDirection	XmStringDirection	dynamic	CG
XmNtopShadowColor	XmCTopShadowColor	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNtopShadowPixmap	XmCTopShadowPixmap	Pixmap	dynamic	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	XtPointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Composite Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	XtOrderProc	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.P 
.wH
.in 0 
.sp 1
.in 0
.KS
.TS 
center;
cBp7 ssss
lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6 lBp6
lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6 lp6.
Core Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.wH
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.KE
.in
.sp 1
.wH
.in  
.SS "Translations"
XmFrame inherits translations from XmManager.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIComposite(3X)\fP,
\fIConstraint(3X)\fP,
\fICore(3X)\fP,
\fIXmCreateFrame(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmManager(3X)\fP.
.ad
