...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmGetPixmap 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmGetPixmap\fP \- A pixmap caching function that generates a pixmap, stores it in a pixmap cache, and returns the pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Pixmap XmGetPixmap (\fBscreen, image_name, foreground, background\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Screen	*\fBscreen\fI;
	char	*\fBimage_name\fI;
	Pixel	\fBforeground\fI;
	Pixel	\fBbackground\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmGetPixmap\fP
uses the parameter data to perform a lookup in the
pixmap cache to see if a pixmap has already been generated that
matches the data.  If one is found, a reference count is incremented
and the pixmap is returned.  Applications should use \fIXmDestroyPixmap\fP
when the pixmap is no longer needed.
.PP 
If a pixmap is not found, \fBimage_name\fP is used to perform a lookup in
the image cache.  If an image is found, it is used to generate the pixmap,
which is then cached and returned.
.PP
If an image is not found, 
\fBimage_name\fP is used as a filename, and a search is made for either
an xpm pixmap file or an \fIX10\fP or \fIX11\fP bitmap file.  
If it is found, the file is
read, converted into an image, and cached in the image cache.  The image
is then used to generate a pixmap, which is cached and returned.
.PP 
If \fBimage_name\fP has a leading slash (\fI/\fP), it specifies a full
pathname, and \fIXmGetPixmap\fP opens the file as specified.
Otherwise, \fBimage_name\fP specifies a filename.
In this case, \fIXmGetPixmap\fP looks for the file along the following
search paths,
specified by \fIXMICONSEARCHPATH\fP or \fIXMICONBMSEARCHPATH\fP depending
on the type of display, \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP and a default search path, which 
varies depending on whether or not the \fIXAPPLRESDIR\fP environment variable 
is set.  The order of the search, is \fIXMICONSEARCHPATH\fP or 
\fIXMICONBMSEARCHPATH\fP first, \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP second, \fIXAPPLRESDIR\fP third, and finally the vendor default search path (see below), until either the file is found or the paths are all visited.
.PP
Both the environment variables \fIXMICONSEARCHPATH\fP and \fIXMICONBMSEARCHPATH\fP specify a search path
for xpm pixmap and X bitmap files.  \fIXmGetPixmap\fP uses \fIXMICONSEARCHPATH\fP
on a color display and \fIXMICONBMSEARCHPATH\fP on a monolithic one.
The type of the display is determined automatically through the use of Xm/ColorObj.
So \fIXMICONSEARCHPATH\fP should consist of a path where locations of xpm files precede those of bitmap files, and \fIXMICONBMSEARCHPATH\fP should maintain a search path in favor of bitmap files.  
These two search paths are new in CDE Motif and will be in Motif 2.0.  
The \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP environment variable, which is here for backward 
compatibility with Motif 1.x, specifies a search path only for X bitmap files.
All these variables can contain the substitution field %B, where the 
\fBimage_name\fP argument to \fIXmGetPixmap\fP is substituted for %B.
They can also contain the substitution fields accepted by
\fIXtResolvePathname\fP.
The substitution field %T is always mapped to \fIbitmaps\fP, and %S is
always mapped to NULL.
.PP
If neither \fIXMICONSEARCHPATH\fP (\fIXMICONBMSEARCHPATH\fP if monolithic) nor \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP is set but the environment variable
\fIXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, the following pathnames are searched:
.iS
.ta 1i
.nf
	%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/bitmaps/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/bitmaps/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/include/X11/bitmaps/%B
.wH
.fi
.iE
.PP 
If none of the above paths is set, the
following pathnames are searched:
.iS
.ta 1i
.nf
	%B
	$HOME/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$HOME/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$HOME/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$HOME/%L/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/%l/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/include/X11/bitmaps/%B
.wH
.fi
.iE
.PP
These paths are defaults that vendors may change.
For example, a vendor may use different directories for
\fI/usr/lib/X11\fP and \fI/usr/include/X11\fP.
.PP 
The following substitutions are used in these paths:
.IP "\fI%B\fP"
The image name, from the \fBimage_name\fP argument.
.IP "\fI%N\fP"
The class name of the application.
.IP "\fI%L\fP"
The display's language string.
.IP "\fI%l\fP"
The language component of the display's language string.
.PP 
Parameter descriptions are listed below:
.IP "\fBscreen\fP"
Specifies the display screen on which the pixmap is to
be drawn.
The depth of the pixmap is the default depth for this screen.
.IP "\fBimage_name\fP"
Specifies the name of the image to be used to
generate the pixmap
.IP "\fBforeground\fP"
Combines the image with the \fBforeground\fP color to create the pixmap
if the image referenced is a bit-per-pixel image
.IP "\fBbackground\fP"
Combines the image with the \fBbackground\fP color to create the pixmap
if the image referenced is a bit-per-pixel image
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pixmap when successful; returns \fIXmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP\fP
if the image corresponding to the \fBimage_name\fP cannot be found.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDestroyPixmap(3X)\fP,
\fIXmGetPixmapByDepth(3X)\fP,
\fIXmInstallImage(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmUninstallImage(3X)\fP.
.ad
