...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmGetPixmap 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmGetPixmap\fP \- A pixmap caching function that generates a pixmap, stores it in a pixmap cache, and returns the pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Pixmap XmGetPixmap (\fBscreen, image_name, foreground, background\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Screen	*\fBscreen\fI;
	char	*\fBimage_name\fI;
	Pixel	\fBforeground\fI;
	Pixel	\fBbackground\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmGetPixmap\fP
uses the parameter data to perform a lookup in the
pixmap cache to see if a pixmap has already been generated that
matches the data.  If one is found, a reference count is incremented
and the pixmap is returned.  Applications should use \fIXmDestroyPixmap\fP
when the pixmap is no longer needed.
.PP 
If a pixmap is not found, \fBimage_name\fP is used to perform a lookup in
the image cache.  If an image is found, it is used to generate the pixmap,
which is then cached and returned.
.PP
If an image is not found, the
\fBimage_name\fP is used as a filename, and a search is made for
an \fIX10\fP or \fIX11\fP bitmap file.  If it is found, the file is
read, converted into an image, and cached in the image cache.  The image
is then used to generate a pixmap, which is cached and returned.
.PP 
If \fBimage_name\fP has a leading slash (\fI/\fP), it specifies a full
pathname, and \fIXmGetPixmap\fP opens the file as specified.
Otherwise, \fBimage_name\fP specifies a filename.
In this case \fIXmGetPixmap\fP looks for the file along a search path
specified by the \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP environment variable or by a default
search path, which varies depending on whether or not the
\fIXAPPLRESDIR\fP environment variable is set.
.PP
The \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP environment variable specifies a search path
for X bitmap files.
It can contain the substitution field %B, where the \fBimage_name\fP
argument to \fIXmGetPixmap\fP is substituted for %B.
It can also contain the substitution fields accepted by
\fIXtResolvePathname\fP.
The substitution field %T is always mapped to \fIbitmaps\fP, and %S is
always mapped to NULL.
.PP
If \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP is not set but the environment variable
\fIXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, the following pathnames are searched:
.iS
.ta 1i
.nf
	%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/bitmaps/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/bitmaps/%B
	$XAPPLRESDIR/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/include/X11/bitmaps/%B
.wH
.fi
.iE
.PP 
If neither \fIXBMLANGPATH\fP nor \fIXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, the
following pathnames are searched:
.iS
.ta 1i
.nf
	%B
	$HOME/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$HOME/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$HOME/bitmaps/%N/%B
	$HOME/%L/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/%l/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/bitmaps/%B
	$HOME/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%N/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%B
	/usr/include/X11/bitmaps/%B
.wH
.fi
.iE
.PP
These paths are defaults that vendors may change.
For example, a vendor may use different directories for
\fI/usr/lib/X11\fP and \fI/usr/include/X11\fP.
.PP 
The following substitutions are used in these paths:
.IP "\fI%B\fP"
The image name, from the \fBimage_name\fP argument.
.IP "\fI%N\fP"
The class name of the application.
.IP "\fI%L\fP"
The display's language string.
.IP "\fI%l\fP"
The language component of the display's language string.
.PP 
Parameter descriptions are listed below:
.IP "\fBscreen\fP"
Specifies the display screen on which the pixmap is to
be drawn.
The depth of the pixmap is the default depth for this screen.
.IP "\fBimage_name\fP"
Specifies the name of the image to be used to
generate the pixmap
.IP "\fBforeground\fP"
Combines the image with the \fBforeground\fP color to create the pixmap
if the image referenced is a bit-per-pixel image
.IP "\fBbackground\fP"
Combines the image with the \fBbackground\fP color to create the pixmap
if the image referenced is a bit-per-pixel image
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pixmap when successful; returns \fIXmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP\fP
if the image corresponding to the \fBimage_name\fP cannot be found.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDestroyPixmap(3X)\fP,
\fIXmGetPixmapByDepth(3X)\fP,
\fIXmInstallImage(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmUninstallImage(3X)\fP.
.ad
