...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmInternAtom 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmInternAtom\fP \- A function that returns an atom for a given name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/AtomMgr.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Atom XmInternAtom (\fBdisplay, name, only_if_exists\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Display	\fB* display\fI;
	String	\fBname\fI;
	Boolean	\fBonly_if_exists\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmInternAtom\fP returns an atom for a given name.
It mirrors the \fIXlib\fP interfaces for atom management, but provides
client-side caching.  When and where caching is provided in \fIXlib\fP, the
routines will become pseudonyms for the \fIXlib\fP routines.
.nL
.ne 15
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the connection to the X server
.IP "\fBname\fP"
Specifies the name associated with the atom you want returned
.IP "\fBonly_if_exists\fP"
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether \fIXInternAtom\fP creates
the atom
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an atom.
