...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListPosSelected 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListPosSelected\fP \- A List function that determines if the
list item at a specified position is selected
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmListPosSelected (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmPosSelected\fP determines if the list item at the specified
position is selected or not.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the list item.  A value of 1 indicates
the first item in the list; a value of 2 indicates the second item;
and so on.  A value of 0 specifies the last item in the list.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the list item is selected; otherwise, returns False
if the item is not selected or the specified position is invalid.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
