...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListReplaceItems 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListReplaceItems\fP \- A List function that replaces the specified elements in the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListReplaceItems (\fBwidget, old_items, item_count, new_items\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	*\fBold_items\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
	XmString	*\fBnew_items\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListReplaceItems\fP replaces each specified item of the list
with a corresponding new item.
When the items are inserted into the list, they are compared with
the current \fIXmNselectedItems\fP list.  If any of the new items
matches an item on the selected list, it appears selected.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget
.IP "\fBold_items\fP"
Specifies the items to be replaced
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of items in \fBold_items\fP and \fBnew_items\fP
This number must be non-negative.
.IP "\fBnew_items\fP"
Specifies the replacement items
.PP 
Every occurrence of each element of \fBold_items\fP is replaced with
the corresponding element from \fBnew_items\fP.
That is, the first element of \fBold_items\fP is replaced with the first
element of \fBnew_items\fP.  The second element of \fBold_items\fP is replaced
with the second element of \fBnew_items\fP, and so on until \fBitem_count\fP
is reached.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
