...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListSetPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListSetPos\fP \- A List function that makes the item at the given position the first visible position in the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListSetPos (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListSetPos\fP makes the item at the given position the first
visible position in the List.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the item to be made the first visible item in
the list.
A value of 1 indicates that the first item in the list is the first
visible item; a value of 2 indicates that the second item is the first
visible item; and so on.
A value of 0 indicates that the last item in the list is the first
visible item.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
