...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListAddItemsUnselected 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListAddItemsUnselected\fP \- A List function that adds items
to a list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListAddItemsUnselected (\fBwidget, items, item_count, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	*\fBitems\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListAddItemsUnselected\fP adds the specified items to the
list at the given position.  The inserted items remain unselected,
even if they currently appear in the \fIXmNselectedItems\fP
list.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget to add items to.
.IP "\fBitems\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the items to be added to the
list.
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in \fBitems\fP.
This number must be non-negative.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the first new item in the list.  A value
of 1 makes the first new item the first item in the list; a value
of 2 makes it the second item; and so on.  A value of 0 makes the
first new item follow the last item of the list.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
