...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListSetKbdItemPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListSetKbdItemPos\fP \- A List function that sets the
location cursor at a specified position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmListSetKbdItemPos (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListSetKbdItemPos\fP sets the location cursor at the
item specified by \fBposition\fP.  This function does not
determine if the item at the specified position is selected
or not.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the item at which the location
cursor is set.  A value of 1 indicates the first item in
the list; a value of 2 indicates the second item; and so
on.  A value of 0 sets the location cursor at the last item
in the list.
.PP
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns False if no item exists at the specified position or if
the list is empty; otherwise, returns True.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
