...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListAddItem 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListAddItem\fP \- A List function that adds an item to the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListAddItem (\fBwidget, item, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	\fBitem\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListAddItem\fP adds an item to the list at the given position.
When the item is inserted into the list, it is compared with the current
\fIXmNselectedItems\fP list.
If the new item matches an item on the selected list, it appears
selected.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List to which an item is added.
.IP "\fBitem\fP"
Specifies the item to be added to the list.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the new item in the list.
A value of 1 makes the new item the first item in the list; a value of 2
makes it the second item; and so on.
A value of 0 makes the new item the last item in the list.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
