...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListDeleteItems 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListDeleteItems\fP \- A List function that deletes items from the list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListDeleteItems (\fBwidget, items, item_count\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	*\fBitems\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListDeleteItems\fP deletes the specified items from the list.
For each element of \fBitems\fP, the first item in the list that matches
that element is deleted.
A warning message appears if any of the items do not exist.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List from whose list an item is deleted
.IP "\fBitems\fP"
Specifies a pointer to items to be deleted from the list
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in \fBitems\fP
This number must be non-negative.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
