...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListReplaceItemsUnselected 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListReplaceItemsUnselected\fP \- A List function that replaces items
in a list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListReplaceItemsUnselected (\fBwidget, old_items, item_count, new_items\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	*\fBold_items\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
	XmString	*\fBnew_items\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListReplaceItemsUnselected\fP replaces each specified item in the
list with a corresponding new item.  The replacement items
remain unselected, even if they currently appear in the \fIXmNselectedItems\fP
list.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget to replace items in.
.IP "\fBold_items\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the list items to be replaced.
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in \fBold_items\fP and
\fBnew_items\fP.
This number must be non-negative.
.IP "\fBnew_items\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the replacement items.  Every
occurrence of each element of \fBold_items\fP is replaced
with the corresponding element from \fBnew_items\fP.  That
is, the first element of \fBold_items\fP is replaced with
the first element of \fBnew_items\fP.  The second element
of \fBold_items\fP is replaced with the second element of
\fBnew_items\fP, and so on until \fBitem_count\fP is
reached.  If an element in \fBold_items\fP does not exist
in the list, the corresponding entry in \fBnew_items\fP
is skipped.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
