...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmListReplaceItemsPosUnselected 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmListReplaceItemsPosUnselected\fP \- A List function that replaces items
in a list without selecting the replacement items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmListReplaceItemsPosUnselected (\fBwidget, new_items, item_count, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmString	*\fBnew_items\fI;
	int	\fBitem_count\fI;
	int	\fBposition\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmListReplaceItemsPosUnselected\fP replaces the specified number of
items in the list with new items, starting at the given position.  The
replacement items remain unselected, even if they currently appear in
the \fIXmNselectedItems\fP list.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ID of the List widget to replace items in.
.IP "\fBnew_items\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the replacement items.
.IP "\fBitem_count\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in \fBnew_items\fP and the
number of items in the list to replace.
This number must be non-negative.
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the first item in the list to
be replaced.  A value of 1 indicates that the first item
replaced is the first item in the list;  a value of 2
indicates that it is the second item; and so on.  
.PP
Beginning with the item specified in \fBposition\fP,
\fBitem_count\fP items in the list are replaced with
the corresponding elements from \fBnew_items\fP.  That
is, the item at \fBposition\fP is replaced with the
first element of \fBnew_items\fP; the item after
\fBposition\fP is replaced with the second element
of \fBnew_items\fP; and so on, until \fBitem_count\fP
is reached.
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmList(3X)\fP.
.ad
