...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmMapSegmentEncoding 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmMapSegmentEncoding\fP \- A compound string function that returns
the compound text encoding format associated with the specified font list tag
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char * XmMapSegmentEncoding (\fBfontlist_tag\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	char	*\fBfontlist_tag\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmMapSegmentEncoding\fP searches the segment encoding registry for
an entry that matches the specified font list tag and returns a copy
of the associated compound text encoding format.  The application is
responsible for freeing the storage associated with the returned data
by calling \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBfontlist_tag\fP"
Specifies the compound string font list tag
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a copy of the associated compound text encoding format
if the font list tag is found in the registry; otherwise, returns NULL.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmCvtXmStringToCT(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmRegisterSegmentEncoding(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmString(3X)\fP.
.ad
