...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmMenuPosition 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmMenuPosition\fP \- A RowColumn function that positions a Popup MenuPane
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmMenuPosition (\fBmenu, event\fI)
.ta .5i 2i
.nf
	Widget	\fBmenu\fI;
	XButtonPressedEvent	\fB* event\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmMenuPosition\fP positions a Popup MenuPane using the information in the
specified event.  Unless an application is positioning the MenuPane
itself, it must first invoke this function before managing the PopupMenu.
The \fBx_root\fP and \fBy_root\fP values in the specified event are used to
determine the menu position.
.IP "\fBmenu\fP"
Specifies the PopupMenu to be positioned
.IP "\fBevent\fP"
Specifies the event passed to the action procedure which manages the
PopupMenu
.PP 
.ne 3
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.ad
