...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRepTypeValidValue 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRepTypeValidValue\fP \- A representation type manager function that
tests the validity of a numerical value of a  representation type resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RepType.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmRepTypeValidValue (\fBrep_type_id, test_value, enable_default_warning\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmRepTypeId	\fBrep_type_id\fI;
	unsigned char	\fBtest_value\fI;
	Widget	\fBenable_default_warning\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRepTypeValidValue\fP tests the validity of a numerical
value for a given representation type resource.  The function
generates a default warning message if the value is invalid
and the \fBenable_default_warning\fP argument is non-NULL.
.IP "\fBrep_type_id\fP"
Specifies the identification number of the representation 
type.
.IP "\fBtest_value\fP"
Specifies the numerical value to test.
.IP "\fBenable_default_warning\fP"
Specifies the ID of the widget that contains a default warning
message.  If this parameter is NULL, 
no default warning message is generated and 
the application must provide its own error handling.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the specified value is valid; otherwise, returns False.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRepTypeGetId(3X)\fP and
\fIXmRepTypeRegister(3X)\fP.
.ad
