...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRemoveProtocols 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRemoveProtocols\fP \- A VendorShell function that removes the protocols from the protocol manager and deallocates the internal tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/Protocols.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmRemoveProtocols (\fBshell, property, protocols, num_protocols\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
	Atom	\fBproperty\fI;
	Atom	\fB* protocols\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBnum_protocols\fI;
.sp \n(PDu
void XmRemoveWMProtocols (\fBshell, protocols, num_protocols\fI)
	Widget	\fBshell\fI;
	Atom	\fB * protocols\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBnum_protocols\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRemoveProtocols\fP removes the protocols from the protocol manager and
deallocates the internal tables.  If any of the protocols are active, it
will update the handlers and update the property if \fBshell\fP is
realized.
.PP 
\fIXmRemoveWMProtocols\fP is a convenience interface.
It calls \fIXmRemoveProtocols\fP
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fIWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.IP "\fBshell\fP"
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated
.IP "\fBproperty\fP"
Specifies the protocol property
.IP "\fBprotocols\fP"
Specifies the protocol atoms (or ints cast to Atom)
.IP "\fBnum_protocols\fP"
Specifies the number of elements in protocols
.PP 
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fIVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIVendorShell(3X)\fP,
\fIXmInternAtom(3X)\fP, and \fIXmRemoveWMProtocols(3X)\fP.
.ad
