...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRepTypeGetNameList 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRepTypeGetNameList\fP \- A representation type manager function that
generates a list of values for a representation type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RepType.h>
.sp \n(PDu
String * XmRepTypeGetNameList (\fBrep_type_id, use_uppercase_format\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	XmRepTypeId	\fBrep_type_id\fI;
	Boolean	\fBuse_uppercase_format\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRepTypeGetNameList\fP generates a null-terminated list of
the value names associated with the specified representation type.
Each value name is a null-terminated string.  This routine allocates
memory for the returned data.  The application must free
this memory using \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBrep_type_id\fP"
Specifies the identification number of the representation type.
.IP "\fBuse_uppercase_format\fP"
Specifies a Boolean value that controls the format of the name
list.  If True, each value name is in uppercase characters prefixed
by "Xm"; if False, the names are in lowercase characters.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to an array of the value names.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRepTypeGetId(3X)\fP,
\fIXmRepTypeGetRegistered(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmRepTypeRegister(3X)\fP.
.ad
