...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRepTypeAddReverse 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRepTypeAddReverse\fP \- A representation type manager function
that installs the reverse converter for a previously registered representation type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RepType.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmRepTypeAddReverse (\fBrep_type_id\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XmRepTypeId	\fBrep_type_id\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRepTypeAddReverse\fP installs the reverse converter
for a previously registered representation type.  The reverse
converter takes a numerical representation type value and returns
its corresponding string value.  Certain applications may require
this capability to obtain a string value to display on a screen
or to build a resource file.
.PP
The \fBvalues\fP argument of the \fIXmRepTypeRegister\fP function
can be used to register representation types with nonconsecutive
values or with duplicate names for the same value.  If the list
of numerical values for a representation type contains duplicate values,
the reverse converter uses the first name in the \fBvalue_names\fP
list that matches the specified numeric value.  For example, if
a \fBvalue_names\fP array has \fIcancel\fP, \fIproceed\fP, and 
\fIabort\fP, and the corresponding 
\fBvalues\fP array contains 0, 1, and 0, the reverse converter 
will return \fIcancel\fP instead of \fIabort\fP for an 
input value of 0.
.IP "\fBrep_type_id\fP"
Specifies the identification number of the representation type
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRepTypeGetId(3X)\fP and
\fIXmRepTypeRegister(3X)\fP.
.ad
