...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRepTypeGetRecord 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRepTypeGetRecord\fP \- A representation type manager function that
returns information about a representation type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RepType.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmRepTypeEntry XmRepTypeGetRecord (\fBrep_type_id\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XmRepTypeId	\fBrep_type_id\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRepTypeGetRecord\fP retrieves information about
a particular representation type that is registered with
the representation type manager.  This routine allocates
memory for the returned data. The application must free 
this memory using \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBrep_type_id\fP"
The identification number of the representation type
.PP
The representation type entry structure contains the following
information:
.nL
.ne 10
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.5i
.nf
typedef struct
{
	String	\fBrep_type_name\fI;
	String	*\fBvalue_names\fI;
	unsigned char	*\fBvalues\fI;
	unsigned char	\fBnum_values\fI;
	Boolean	\fBreverse_installed\fI;
	XmRepTypeId	\fBrep_type_id\fI;
} XmRepTypeEntryRec, *XmRepTypeEntry ;
.iE
.sE
.IP "\fBrep_type_name\fP"
The name of the representation type
.IP "\fBvalue_names\fP"
An array of representation type value names
.IP "\fBvalues\fP"
An array of representation type numerical values
.IP "\fBnum_values\fP"
The number of values associated with the representation type
.IP "\fBreverse_installed\fP"
A flag that indicates whether or not the reverse converter is
installed
.IP "\fBrep_type_id\fP"
The identification number of the representation type
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to the representation type entry structure that
describes the representation type.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRepTypeGetId(3X)\fP,
\fIXmRepTypeGetRegistered(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmRepTypeRegister(3X)\fP.
.ad
