...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRepTypeGetRegistered 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRepTypeGetRegistered\fP \- A representation type manager function that
returns a copy of the registration list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RepType.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmRepTypeList XmRepTypeGetRegistered ()
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRepTypeGetRegistered\fP retrieves information about
all representation types that are registered with the 
representation type manager.  The registration list is
an array of structures, each of which contains information
for a representation type entry.  The end of the registration
list is marked with a representation type entry whose
\fBrep_type_name\fP field has a NULL pointer.  This routine
allocates memory for the returned data.  The application must free
this memory using \fIXtFree\fP.
.PP
The representation type entry structure contains the following
information:
.ne 10
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.5i
.nf
typedef struct
{
	String	\fBrep_type_name\fI;
	String	*\fBvalue_names\fI;
	unsigned char	*\fBvalues\fI;
	unsigned char	\fBnum_values\fI;
	Boolean	\fBreverse_installed\fI;
	XmRepTypeId	\fBrep_type_id\fI;
} XmRepTypeEntryRec, *XmRepTypeList ;
.iE
.sE
.IP "\fBrep_type_name\fP"
The name of the representation type
.IP "\fBvalue_names\fP"
An array of representation type value names
.IP "\fBvalues\fP"
An array of representation type numerical values
.IP "\fBnum_values\fP"
The number of values associated with the representation type
.IP "\fBreverse_installed\fP"
A flag that indicates whether or not the reverse converter is
installed
.IP "\fBrep_type_id\fP"
The identification number of the representation type
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to the registration list of representation types.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmRepTypeRegister(3X)\fP and
\fIXmRepTypeGetRecord(3X)\fP.
.ad
