...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmResolveAllPartOffsets 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmResolveAllPartOffsets\fP \- A function that allows writing of upward-compatible applications and widgets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/XmP.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmResolveAllPartOffsets (\fBwidget_class, offset, constraint_offset\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	WidgetClass	\fBwidget_class\fI;
	XmOffsetPtr	\fB* offset\fI;
	XmOffsetPtr	\fB* constraint_offset\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
The use of offset records requires two extra global variables per widget
class.
The variables consist of pointers to arrays of offsets into the
widget record and constraint record for each part of the widget
structure.
The \fIXmResolveAllPartOffsets\fP function
allocates the offset records needed by an application to guarantee
upward-compatible access to widget instance and constraint records by
applications and widgets.
These offset records are used by the widget to access all of the
widget's variables.
A widget needs to take the following steps:
.TP
\(bu
Instead of creating a resource list, the widget creates an offset
resource list.
To help you accomplish this, use the \fIXmPartResource\fP
structure and the \fIXmPartOffset\fP macro.
The \fIXmPartResource\fP data structure looks just like a
resource list, but instead of having
one integer for its offset, it has two shorts.
This is put into the class record as if it were a normal resource
list.  Instead of using \fIXtOffset\fP for the offset, the widget uses
\fIXmPartOffset\fP.
.PP
If the widget is a subclass of the Constraint class and it defines
additional constraint resources, create an offset resource list for
the constraint part as well.
Instead of using \fIXtOffset\fP for the offset,
the widget uses \fIXmConstraintPartOffset\fP in the constraint resource
list.
.oS
.ta 0.25i 0.5i
.nf
XmPartResource resources[] = {
	{	BarNxyz, BarCXyz, XmRBoolean, sizeof(Boolean),
		XmPartOffset(Bar,xyz), XmRImmediate, (XtPointer)False } };
.sp .5
XmPartResource constraints[] = {
	{	BarNmaxWidth, BarNMaxWidth,
          XmRDimension, sizeof(Dimension),
          XmConstraintPartOffset(Bar,max_width),
          XmRImmediate, (XtPointer)100 } };
.oE
.TP
\(bu
Instead of putting the widget size in the class record, the widget puts the
widget part size in the same field.
If the widget is a subclass of
the Constraint class, instead of putting the widget constraint record
size in the class record, the widget puts the widget constraint part size
in the same field.
.TP
\(bu
Instead of putting \fIXtVersion\fP in the class record, the widget puts
\fIXtVersionDontCheck\fP in the class record.
.TP
\(bu
Define a variable, of type \fIXmOffsetPtr\fP, to point to
the offset record.
If the widget is a subclass of the Constraint class, define a variable
of type XmOffsetPtr to point to the constraint offset record.
These can be part of the widget's class record or separate global
variables.
.TP
\(bu
In class initialization, the widget calls \fIXmResolveAllPartOffsets\fP,
passing it pointers to the class record, the address of the offset
record, and the address of the constraint offset record.
If the widget not is a subclass of the Constraint class, it should pass
NULL as the address of the constraint offset record.
This does several things:
.PP
Adds the superclass (which, by definition, has already been initialized)
size field to the part size field
.PP
If the widget is a subclass of the Constraint class, adds the superclass
constraint size field to the constraint size field
.PP
Allocates an array based upon the number of superclasses
.PP
If the widget is a subclass of the constraint class, allocates an array
for the constraint offset record
.PP
Fills in the offsets of all the widget parts and constraint parts with
the appropriate values, determined by examining the size fields of all
superclass records
.PP
Uses the part offset array to modify the offset entries in the resource
list to be real offsets, in place
.TP
\(bu
The widget defines a constant which will be the index to its part
structure in the offsets array.
The value should be 1 greater than
the index of the widget's superclass.
Constants defined for all Xm
widgets can be found in \fIXmP.h\fP.
.oS
\&#define BarIndex (XmBulletinBIndex + 1)
.oE
.nL
.ne 10
.TP
\(bu
Instead of accessing fields directly, the widget must always go through
the offset table.
The \fIXmField\fP and \fIXmConstraintField\fP macros help you access
these fields.
Because the \fIXmPartOffset\fP, \fIXmConstraintPartOffset\fP,
\fIXmField\fP, and \fIXmConstraintField\fP
macros concatenate things together, you must ensure that there is no space
after the part argument.
For example, the following macros do not work because of the space
after the part (Label) argument:
.oS
XmField(w, offset, Label , text, char *)
XmPartOffset(Label , text).
.oE
Therefore, you must not have any spaces after the part (Label)
argument, as illustrated here:
.oS
XmField(w, offset, Label, text, char *)
.oE
.ne 10
You can define macros for each field to make this easier.
Assume an integer field \fBxyz\fP:
.oS
.ta 0.25i
.nf
\&#define BarXyz(w) (*(int *)(((char *) w) + \e
	offset[BarIndex] + XtOffset(BarPart,xyz)))
.oE
.PP
For constraint field \fBmax_width\fP:
.oS
.ta 0.25i
.nf
\&#define BarMaxWidth(w) \e
	XmConstraintField(w,constraint_offsets,Bar,max_width,Dimension)
.oE
.PP 
The parameters for \fIXmResolveAllPartOffsets\fP are defined below:
.IP "\fBwidget_class\fP"
Specifies the widget class pointer for the created widget
.IP "\fBoffset\fP"
Returns the offset record
.IP "\fBconstraint_offset\fP"
Returns the constraint offset record
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.na
\fIXmResolvePartOffsets(3X)\fP.
.ad
