...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmRegisterSegmentEncoding 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmRegisterSegmentEncoding\fP \- A compound string function that registers
a compound text encoding format for a specified font list element tag
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char * XmRegisterSegmentEncoding (\fBfontlist_tag, ct_encoding\fI)
.ta .5i 1.25i
.nf
	char	*\fBfontlist_tag\fI;
	char	*\fBct_encoding\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmRegisterSegmentEncoding\fP registers a compound text encoding format
with the specified font list element tag.  The \fIXmCvtXmStringToCT\fP
function uses this registry to map the font list tags of compound string
segments to compound text encoding formats.  Registering
a font list tag that already exists in the registry overwrites the original
entry.  You can unregister a font list tag by passing a NULL value for the
\fBct_encoding\fP parameter.
.IP "\fBfontlist_tag\fP"
Specifies the font list element tag to be registered.  The
tag must be a NULL-terminated ISO8859-1 string.
.IP "\fBct_encoding\fP"
Specifies the compound text character set to be used for segments
with the font list tag.  The value must be a NULL-terminated ISO8859-1 string.
A value of \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP maps the specified font list tag to
the code set of the locale.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns NULL for a new font list tag or the old \fBct_encoding\fP
value for an already registered font list tag.   The 
application is responsible for freeing the 
storage associated with the returned data (if any) by
calling \fIXtFree\fP. 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmCvtXmStringToCT(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmMapSegmentEncoding(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmString(3X)\fP.
.ad
