...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringSegmentCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringSegmentCreate\fP \- A compound string function that creates a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringSegmentCreate (\fBtext, tag, direction, separator\fI)
.ta .5i 1.75i
.nf
	char	\fB* text\fI;
	char	*\fBtag\fI;
	XmStringDirection	\fBdirection\fI;
	Boolean	\fBseparator\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringSegmentCreate\fP is a high-level function that assembles a compound
string consisting of a font list element tag, a direction component,
a text component, and an optional separator component.
.nL
.ne 10
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies the font list element tag to be associated with the text.
The value \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP identifies a locale
text segment.
.IP "\fBdirection\fP"
Specifies the direction of the text.
.IP "\fBseparator\fP"
Specifies separator addition.  If False, the compound string does not
have a separator at the end.  If True, a separator immediately
follows the text component.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.ad
