...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringGetLtoR 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringGetLtoR\fP \- A compound string function that searches for a text segment in the input compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmStringGetLtoR (\fBstring, tag, text\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XmString	\fBstring\fI;
	XmStringCharSet	\fBtag\fI;
	char	**\fBtext\fI;
.wH
.fi
.ne 30
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringGetLtoR\fP searches for a text segment in the input
compound string that matches the given font list element tag.
.IP "\fBstring\fP"
Specifies the compound string.
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies the font list element tag associated with the text.
A value of \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP identifies a locale text
segment.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the matching text segment can be found.
On return, \fBtext\fP will have a null terminated octet sequence
containing the matched segment.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.ad
