...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmString 3X "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmString\fP \- Data type for a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmString\fP
is the data type for a compound string.
Compound strings include one or more segments, each of which may contain
a font list element tag, string direction, and text component.  When a
compound string is displayed, the font list element tag and the
direction are used to determine how to display the text.
Whenever a font list element tag is set to \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP
the text is handled as a locale text segment.
.PP 
Calling \fIXtGetValues\fP for a resource whose type is XmString yields a
copy of the compound string resource value.
The application is responsible for using \fIXmStringFree\fP to free the
memory allocated for the copy.
.PP
Refer to the \fIXmFontList\fP man page for a description of the algorithm
that associates the font list element tag of a compound string
segment with a font list entry in a font list.
.PP
The compound string interface consists of the routines listed under
"Related Information."
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringBaseline(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringByteCompare(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCompare(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringConcat(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreateLtoR(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDirection(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDirectionCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDraw(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDrawImage(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDrawUnderline(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringEmpty(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringExtent(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringFreeContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringGetLtoR(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringGetNextComponent(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringGetNextSegment(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringHasSubstring(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringHeight(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringInitContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringLength(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringLineCount(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringNConcat(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringNCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringPeekNextComponent(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringSegmentCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringSeparatorCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringTable(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmStringWidth(3X)\fP.
.ad
