...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringCreate\fP \- A compound string function that creates a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringCreate (\fBtext, tag\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	char	*\fBtext\fI;
	char	*\fBtag\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringCreate\fP creates a compound
string with two components: text and a font list element tag.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies the font list element tag to be associated with the given
text.  The value \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP identifies a locale
text segment.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListAdd(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListAppendEntry(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetFont(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryGetTag(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListEntryLoad(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListFreeFontContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListGetNextFont(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListInitFontContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListNextEntry(3X)\fP,
\fIXmFontListRemoveEntry(3X)\fP,
\fIXmString(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringBaseline(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringByteCompare(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCompare(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringConcat(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreateLtoR(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDirection(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDirectionCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDraw(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDrawImage(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringDrawUnderline(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringEmpty(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringExtent(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringFree(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringFreeContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringGetLtoR(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringGetNextComponent(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringGetNextSegment(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringHasSubstring(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringHeight(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringInitContext(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringLength(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringLineCount(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringNConcat(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringNCopy(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringPeekNextComponent(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringSegmentCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringSeparatorCreate(3X)\fP,
\fIXmStringTable(3X)\fP, and
\fIXmStringWidth(3X)\fP.
.ad
