...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringHasSubstring 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringHasSubstring\fP \- A compound string function that indicates whether one compound string is contained within another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmStringHasSubstring (\fBstring, substring\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XmString	\fBstring\fI;
	XmString	\fBsubstring\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringHasSubstring\fP
indicates whether or not one compound string is contained within
another.
.IP "\fBstring\fP"
Specifies the compound string to be searched
.IP "\fBsubstring\fP"
Specifies the compound string to be searched for
.nL
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if
\fBsubstring\fP
has a single segment and if its text is completely contained within any
single segment of \fBstring\fP; otherwise, returns False.
If two compound strings created using \fIXmStringCreateLocalized\fP in
the same language environment satisfy this condition, the function
returns True.  If two compound strings created with the same character
set using \fIXmStringCreate\fP satisfy this condition, the function
returns True.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized(3X).
.ad
