...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringGetNextSegment 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringGetNextSegment\fP \- A compound string function that fetches the octets in the next segment of a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
.nf
Boolean XmStringGetNextSegment (\fBcontext, text, tag, direction, separator\fI)
.ta .5i 2i
.nf
	XmStringContext	\fBcontext\fI;
	char	**\fBtext\fI;
	XmStringCharSet	*\fBtag\fI;
	XmStringDirection	*\fBdirection\fI;
	Boolean	*\fBseparator\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringGetNextSegment\fP
fetches the octets in the next segment; repeated calls
fetch sequential segments.  The \fBtext\fP, \fBtag\fP,
and \fBdirection\fP of the fetched segment are returned each time.  A
Boolean status is returned to indicate whether a valid segment was
successfully parsed.
.nL
.ne 7
.IP "\fBcontext\fP"
Specifies the string context structure which was allocated by the
\fIXmStringInitContext\fP function.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the font list element tag associated with the
text.
.IP "\fBdirection\fP"
Specifies a pointer to the direction of the text.
.IP "\fBseparator\fP"
Specifies whether the next component of the compound string is a
separator.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if a valid segment is found.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and \fIXmStringInitContext(3X)\fP.
.ad
