...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringCreateLocalized 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized\fP \- A compound string function that creates
a compound string in the current locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringCreateLocalized (\fBtext\fI)
.ta .5i 1i
.nf
	char	*\fBtext\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringCreateLocalized\fP creates a compound string containing
the specified text and assigns \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP as the
font list entry tag.  An identical compound string would result
from the function \fIXmStringCreate\fP called with  
\fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP explicitly as the font list entry
tag.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a null-terminated string of text encoded in the current
locale to be used as the text component of the compound string
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.ad
