...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringCreateLtoR 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringCreateLtoR\fP \- A compound string function that creates a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringCreateLtoR (\fBtext, tag\fI)
.ta .5i 1.25i
.nf
	char	*\fBtext\fI;
	char	*\fBtag\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringCreateLtoR\fP creates a compound
string with two components: text and a font list element tag.
This function imposes the semantic of scanning for \fI\en\fP
characters in the text.  When one is found, the text up to that point
is put into a segment followed by a separator component.  No final
separator component is appended to the end of the compound string.
The direction defaults to left-to-right.
This function assumes that the encoding is single octet
rather than double octet per character of text.
.IP "\fBtext\fP"
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.nL
.ne 6
.IP "\fBtag\fP"
Specifies the font list element tag to be associated with the given
text.  The value \fIXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\fP identifies a locale
text segment.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.ad
