...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmStringBaseline 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmStringBaseline\fP \- A compound string function that returns the number of pixels between the top of the character box and the baseline of the first line of text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Dimension XmStringBaseline (\fBfontlist, string\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	XmFontList	\fBfontlist\fI;
	XmString	\fBstring\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmStringBaseline\fP
returns the number of pixels between the top of the character
box and the baseline of the first line of text in the provided compound
string.
.PP 
.IP "\fBfontlist\fP"
Specifies the font list
.IP "\fBstring\fP"
Specifies the string
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the number of
pixels between the top of the character box and the baseline of the first
line of text.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.ad
