...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTargetsAreCompatible 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTargetsAreCompatible\fP \- A function that tests
whether the target types match between a drop site and source object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmTargetsAreCompatible (\fBdisplay, export_targets, num_export_targets, 
			import_targets, num_import_targets\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Display	*\fBdisplay\fI;
	Atom	*\fBexport_targets\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBnum_export_targets\fI;
	Atom	*\fBimport_targets\fI;
	Cardinal	\fBnum_import_targets\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTargetsAreCompatible\fP determines whether the import targets of
the destination match any of the export targets of a source.
If there is at least one target in common, the function returns True.
.IP "\fBdisplay\fP"
Specifies the display connection.
.IP "\fBexport_targets\fP"
Specifies the list of target atoms associated with the source object.
This resource identifies the selection targets the source
can convert to.
.IP "\fBnum_export_targets\fP"
Specifies the number of entries in the list of export targets.
.IP "\fBimport_targets\fP"
Specifies the list of targets to be checked against the
\fIXmNexportTargets\fP of the source associated with the
specified DragContext
.IP "\fBnum_import_targets\fP"
Specifies the number of entries in the \fBimport_targets\fP list.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a Boolean value that indicates whether the destination
targets are compatible with the source targets.  If there is at
least one target in common, the routine returns True; otherwise,
returns False.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmDragContext(3X)\fP and
\fIXmDropSite(3X)\fP.
.ad
