...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextFieldGetSelectionWcs 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextFieldGetSelectionWcs\fP \- A TextField function that retrieves the
value of a wide character encoded primary selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp \n(PDu
wchar_t * XmTextFieldGetSelectionWcs (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextFieldGetSelectionWcs\fP retrieves the value of the primary
selection, encoded in a wide character format.  It returns a
NULL pointer if no text is selected in the widget.  The application
is responsible for freeing the storage associated with the wide
character buffer by calling \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the wide character string that is associated with the primary
selection in the TextField widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextFieldGetSelection(3X)\fP.
.ad
