...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextFieldGetSelection 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextFieldGetSelection\fP \- A TextField function that retrieves the value of the primary selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char * XmTextFieldGetSelection (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextFieldGetSelection\fP
retrieves the value of the primary selection.  It returns
a NULL pointer if no text is selected in the widget.  The application is
responsible for freeing the storage associated with the string by calling
\fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.nL
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a character pointer to the string that is associated with the
primary selection.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP and \fIXmTextFieldGetSelectionWcs(3X)\fP.
.ad
