...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextGetSelectionWcs 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextGetSelectionWcs\fP \- A Text function that retrieves the
value of a wide character encoded primary selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
wchar_t * XmTextGetSelectionWcs (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextGetSelectionWcs\fP retrieves the value of the primary selection
that is encoded in a wide character format.  It returns a NULL pointer
if no text is selected in the widget.  The application is responsible
for freeing the storage associated with the wide character buffer by 
calling \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the wide character string that is associated with the 
primary selection in the Text widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextGetSelection(3X)\fP.
.ad
