...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextFieldSetStringWcs 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextFieldSetStringWcs\fP \- A TextField function that sets a wide
character string value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextFieldSetStringWcs (\fBwidget, wcstring\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	wchar_t	*\fBwcstring\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextFieldSetStringWcs\fP sets the wide character string value
of the TextField widget. This routine calls the widget's 
\fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP and verification callbacks, either
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP or \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP,
or both.  If both verification callback lists are registered, the
procedures of the \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP list are executed
first and the resulting data is passed to the
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP callbacks.  It also sets the insertion
cursor position to the beginning of the string and calls the widget's 
\fIXmNmotionVerifyCallback\fP callbacks.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fBwcstring\fP"
Specifies the wide character string value and places the string
into the text edit window
.PP 
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextFieldSetString(3X)\fP.
.ad
