...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextGetString 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextGetString\fP \- A Text function that accesses the string value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char * XmTextGetString (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextGetString\fP
accesses the string value of the Text widget.  The application
is responsible for freeing the storage associated with the string by
calling \fIXtFree\fP.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a character pointer to the string value of the text widget.
Returns an empty string if the length of the Text widget's string is 0.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextGetStringWcs(3X)\fP.
.ad
