...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextSetInsertionPosition 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextSetInsertionPosition\fP \- A Text function that sets the position of the insert cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextSetInsertionPosition (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmTextPosition	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextSetInsertionPosition\fP sets the insertion cursor position of the
Text widget.
This routine also calls the widget's \fIXmNmotionVerifyCallback\fP
callbacks if the insertion cursor position changes.
.P 
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position of the insertion cursor.  This is an integer number
of characters from the beginning of the text buffer.  The first
character position is 0.
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.ad
