...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextSetStringWcs 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextSetStringWcs\fP \- A Text function that sets a wide character
string value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextSetStringWcs (\fBwidget, wcstring\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	wchar_t	*\fBwcstring\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextSetStringWcs\fP sets the wide character string value
of the Text widget.  This routine calls the widget's 
\fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP and verification callbacks, either
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP or \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP,
or both.  If both verification callback lists are registered, the
procedures of the \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP list are executed
first and the resulting data is passed to the
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP callbacks.  It also sets the
insertion cursor position to the beginning of the string and
calls the widget's \fIXmNmotionVerifyCallback\fP callbacks.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.IP "\fBvalue\fP"
Specifies the wide character string value and places the string
into the text edit window.
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextSetString(3X)\fP.
.ad
