...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextFieldShowPosition 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextFieldShowPosition\fP \- A TextField function that forces text at a given position to be displayed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextFieldShowPosition (\fBwidget, position\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmTextPosition	\fBposition\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextFieldShowPosition\fP forces text at the specified position to be
displayed.  If the \fIXmNautoShowCursorPosition\fP resource is True, the
application should also set the insert cursor to this position.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the character position to be displayed.  This is an integer
number of characters from the beginning of the text buffer.  The first
character position is 0.
.PP 
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.nL
.ne 4
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.ad
