...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextSetTopCharacter 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextSetTopCharacter\fP \- A Text function that sets the position of the first character displayed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextSetTopCharacter (\fBwidget, top_character\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmTextPosition	\fBtop_character\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextSetTopCharacter\fP sets the position of the text at the top
of the Text widget.
If the \fIXmNeditMode\fP is \fIXmMULTI_LINE_EDIT\fP, the line of text
that contains \fBtop_character\fP is displayed at the top of the widget
without shifting the text left or right.
.P 
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.IP "\fBtop_character\fP"
Specifies the position in the text to display at the top of the widget.
This is an integer number of characters from the beginning of the text
buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.ad
