...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextPosToXY 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextPosToXY\fP \- A Text function that accesses the x and y position of a character position
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmTextPosToXY (\fBwidget, position, x, y\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmTextPosition	\fBposition\fI;
	Position	\fB*x\fI;
	Position	\fB*y\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextPosToXY\fP accesses the x and y position, relative to the upper
left corner of the Text widget, of a given character position in the
text buffer.
.P 
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the character position in the text for which the x and y
position is accessed.  This is an integer number of characters
from the beginning of the buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.IP "\fBx\fP"
Specifies the pointer in which the x position, relative to the upper
left corner of the widget, is returned.  This value is meaningful only
if the function returns True.
.IP "\fBy\fP"
Specifies the pointer in which the y position, relative to the upper
left corner of the widget, is returned.  This value is meaningful only
if the function returns True.
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns True if the character position is displayed in the
Text widget; otherwise, it returns False, and no \fBx\fP or \fBy\fP
value is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.ad
