...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextFieldGetInsertionPosition 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextFieldGetInsertionPosition\fP \- A TextField function that accesses the position of the insertion cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmTextPosition XmTextFieldGetInsertionPosition (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextFieldGetInsertionPosition\fP accesses the insertion cursor
position of the TextField widget.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.nL
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an XmTextPosition value that indicates the state of the
\fIXmNcursorPosition\fP resource.  This is an integer number of
characters from the beginning of the text buffer.  The first character
position is 0.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.ad
