...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextGetSelection 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextGetSelection\fP \- A Text function that retrieves the value of the primary selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
char * XmTextGetSelection (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextGetSelection\fP
retrieves the value of the primary selection.  It returns
a NULL pointer if no text is selected in the widget.  The application is
responsible for freeing the storage associated with the string by calling
\fIXtFree\fP.
.nL
.ne 5
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fIXmText(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a character pointer to the string that is associated with the
primary selection.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmText(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextGetSelectionWcs(3X)\fP.
.ad
