...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTextFieldInsertWcs 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTextFieldInsertWcs\fP \- A TextField function that inserts a wide
character string into a TextField widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextFieldInsertWcs (\fBwidget, position, wcstring\fI)
.ta .5i 2i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XmTextPosition	\fBposition\fI;
	wchar_t	*\fBwcstring\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTextFieldInsertWcs\fP inserts a wide character string into
the TextField widget at a specified location.  The character
positions begin at zero and are numbered sequentially from the
beginning of the text.  For example, to insert a string after 
the fourth character, the \fBposition\fP parameter must be 4.
.PP
This routine calls the widget's \fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP and
verification callbacks, either \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP or
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP, or both.  If both verification
callback lists are registered, the procedures of the
\fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP list are executed first and the resulting
data is passed to the \fIXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\fP callbacks.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fBposition\fP"
Specifies the position in the text string where the new character string is
to be inserted
.IP "\fBwcstring\fP"
Specifies the wide character string value to be added to the TextField widget
.PP 
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTextField(3X)\fP and
\fIXmTextFieldInsert(3X)\fP.
.ad
