...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmToggleButtonGadgetSetState 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmToggleButtonGadgetSetState\fP \- A ToggleButtonGadget function that sets or changes the current state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/ToggleBG.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmToggleButtonGadgetSetState (\fBwidget, state, notify\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	Boolean	\fBstate\fI;
	Boolean	\fBnotify\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmToggleButtonGadgetSetState\fP sets or changes the ToggleButtonGadget's
current state.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the ToggleButtonGadget widget ID.
.IP "\fBstate\fP"
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether the ToggleButtonGadget state is
selected or unselected.  If True, the button state is selected;
if False, the button state is unselected.
.nL
.ne 10
.IP "\fBnotify\fP"
Indicates whether \fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP is called;
it can be either True or False.
The \fIXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP is only called when this function
changes the state of the ToggleButtonGadget.
When this argument is True and the ToggleButtonGadget is a child of a
RowColumn widget whose \fIXmNradioBehavior\fP is True, setting the
ToggleButtonGadget causes other ToggleButton and ToggleButtonGadget
children of the RowColumn to be unselected.
.PP 
For a complete definition of ToggleButtonGadget and
its associated resources, see \fIXmToggleButtonGadget(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmToggleButtonGadget(3X)\fP.
.ad
