...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTrackingLocate 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTrackingLocate\fP \- A Toolkit function that provides a modal interaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmTrackingLocate (\fBwidget, cursor, confine_to\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	Cursor	\fBcursor\fI;
	Boolean	\fBconfine_to\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTrackingLocate\fP provides a modal interface for selection of a
component.
It is intended to support context help.
The function grabs the pointer and discards succeeding events until
\fIBSelect\fP is released or a key is pressed and then released.
The function then returns the widget or gadget that contains the
pointer when \fIBSelect\fP is released or a key is released.
.PP
This function is obsolete and exists for compatibility with 
previous releases.  It has been replaced by \fIXmTrackingEvent\fP.
.P 
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the widget ID of a widget to use as the basis of the modal
interaction.  That is, the widget within which the interaction must
occur, usually a top level shell.
.nL
.ne 15
.IP "\fBcursor\fP"
Specifies the cursor to be used for the pointer during the interaction.
This is a standard X cursor name.
.IP "\fBconfine_to\fP"
Specifies whether or not the cursor should be confined to \fBwidget\fP
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns the widget or gadget that contains the pointer when \fIBSelect\fP
is released or a key is released.  If no widget or gadget contains the
pointer, the function returns NULL.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTrackingEvent(3X)\fP.
.ad
