...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmTrackingEvent 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmTrackingEvent\fP \- A Toolkit function that provides a modal interaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmTrackingEvent (\fBwidget, cursor, confine_to, event_return\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	Cursor	\fBcursor\fI;
	Boolean	\fBconfine_to\fI;
	XEvent	*\fBevent_return\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmTrackingEvent\fP provides a modal interface for selection of a
component.
It is intended to support context help.
The function grabs the pointer and discards succeeding events until
\fIBSelect\fP is released or a key is pressed and then released. 
The function then returns the widget or gadget that contains the
pointer when \fIBSelect\fP is released or a key is released.
.PP
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the widget ID of a widget to use as the basis of the modal
interaction.  That is, the widget within which the interaction must
occur, usually a top level shell.
.IP "\fBcursor\fP"
Specifies the cursor to be used for the pointer during the interaction.
This is a standard X cursor name.
.IP "\fBconfine_to\fP"
Specifies whether or not the cursor should be confined to \fBwidget\fP.
.IP "\fBevent_return\fP"
Returns the ButtonRelease or KeyRelease event that causes the function
to return.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget or gadget that contains the pointer when \fIBSelect\fP
is released or a key is released.  If no widget or gadget contains the
pointer, the function returns NULL.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmTrackingLocate(3X)\fP.
.ad
