...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmUpdateDisplay 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmUpdateDisplay\fP \- A function that processes all pending exposure events immediately
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
void XmUpdateDisplay\fI (\fBwidget\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
.wH
.fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmUpdateDisplay\fP provides the application with a mechanism for forcing all
pending exposure events to be removed from the input queue and processed immediately.
When a user selects a button within a MenuPane, the MenuPanes are
unposted and then any activation callbacks registered by the application
are invoked.  If one of the callbacks performs a time-consuming action,
the portion of the application window that was covered by the MenuPanes
will not have been redrawn; normal exposure processing does not occur until
all of the callbacks have been invoked.  If the
application writer  suspects that a callback
will take a long time, then the callback may choose to invoke
\fIXmUpdateDisplay\fP before starting its time-consuming operation.
This function is also useful any time a transient window, such as a dialog box, is unposted;
callbacks are invoked before normal exposure processing can occur.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies any widget or gadget.
