...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
...\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **
.TH XmWidgetGetDisplayRect 3X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIXmWidgetGetDisplayRect\fP \- Retrieves display rectangle
information for a widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmWidgetGetDisplayRect (\fBwidget, displayrect\fI)
.ta .5i 1.5i
.nf
	Widget	\fBwidget\fI;
	XRectangle	*\fBdisplayrect\fI;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIXmWidgetGetDisplayRect\fP returns the width, height and 
the x and y coordinates of the upper left corner of the display
rectangle of the specified widget.  The display rectangle
is the smallest rectangle that encloses either a string
or a pixmap.
.PP
If the widget contains a string, the return values specify 
the x and y coordinates of the upper left corner of
the display rectangle relative to the origin of the widget
and the width and height in pixels.
.PP
In the case of a pixmap, the return values
specify the x and y coordinates of the upper left corner of
the pixmap relative to the origin, and the width
and height of the pixmap in pixels.
.IP "\fBwidget\fP"
Specifies the widget ID
.IP "\fBdisplayrect\fP"
Specifies a pointer to an XRectangle structure in which the 
x and y coordinates, width and height of the display rectangle
are returned
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the specified widget has an associated
display rectangle; otherwise, returns False.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIXmWidgetGetBaselines(3X)\fP.
.ad
