.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.TH ttrmdir 1 "1 March 1996" "ToolTalk 1.3" "ToolTalk Commands"
.BH "1 March 1996"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.IX "ttrmdir" "" "ttrmdir.1" ""
.SH "NAME"
ttrmdir \- remove empty directories and inform the ToolTalk service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ft 3
.fi
.na
ttrmdir
[\(miL]
\f2directory\fP
\&.\|.\|.
.PP
.fi
.ft 3
.fi
.na
ttrmdir
\(mih
\(bv
\(miv
.PP
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.BR ttrmdir 
utility
invokes
.BR rmdir (1)
to remove empty directories and informs
ToolTalk about its actions so that the ToolTalk objects
associated with the deleted directories can also be deleted.
.PP
The
.BR ttrmdir 
utility removes the ToolTalk objects before it removes the directories
and does not check whether a directory is empty or whether the
directory-removing operation will succeed before performing the
object-removing operation.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are available:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI \f3\(mih\f1
Write a help message for invoking
.BR ttrmdir 
and then exit.
.LI \f3\(miL\f1
Remove the ToolTalk objects of the directories, but do not invoke
.BR rmdir (1)
to remove the actual directories.
.LI \f3\(miv\f1
Write the version number of
.BR ttrmdir 
and then exit.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.PP
The
.B \(mip
option to
.BR cp (1)
is not supported.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI \f2directory\fP
.br
A pathname of an empty directory to be removed.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The input files specified as operands can be of any file type.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.BR ttrmdir :
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
The
.BR ttrmdir 
utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
When the
.B \(mih
option is used,
.BR ttrmdir 
writes to standard output a help message
in an unspecified format.
.PP
When the
.B \(miv
option is used,
.BR ttrmdir 
writes to standard output a version number
in an unspecified format.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
All directories and ToolTalk objects were removed successfully.
.LI >0
An error occurred or the invoked
.BR rmdir (1)
command exited with a non-zero value.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
/\f2mountpoint\fP/TT_DB
The directory used as a database
for the ToolTalk objects of files in the
file system mounted at
.IR /mountpoint .
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The definition of an empty directory
is one that contains, at most,
directory entries for dot and dot-dot.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR rmdir (1),
.BR ttrm (1),
.BR ttsession (1).
