.TH DR_DT 1X "12 January 1994"
.PP
.BH "12 January -1994"
.PP
.SH NAME
dr_dt - CDE desktop installation/configuration diagnostic tool
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dr_dt
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dr_dt is a script that checks the integrity of the
filesets that relate to the CDE desktop. Dr_dt checks for the
existence and permissions of CDE desktop files, as well as the status
other files that the desktop is dependent upon to run successfully. Dr_dt
will check files that should have been altered during the 
installation/configuration of the desktop product. 
.PP
If there are
problems, or information that the user may wish to know, dr_dt will issue
statements informing the user to that effect.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/dr_dt
The main calling script

.TP
.B /usr/dt/icons/C/dr_dt.l.bm
The bitmap file used for the large file manager icon on a monochrome system

.TP
.B /usr/dt/icons/C/dr_dt.l_m.bm
The bitmap file used for the large file manager icon mask on a monochrome system

.TP
.B /usr/dt/icons/C/dr_dt.s.bm
The bitmap file used for the small file manager icon on a monochrome system

.TP
.B /usr/dt/icons/C/dr_dt.s_m.bm
The bitmap file used for the small file manager icon mask on a monochrome system

.TP
.B /usr/dt/icons/C/dr_dt.l.pm
The bitmap file used for the large file manager icon on a color system

.TP
.B /usr/dt/icons/C/dr_dt.s.pm
The bitmap file used for the small file manager icon on a color system

.TP
.B /usr/dt/types/C/dt.dt
File used to define the dr_dt file manager action

.TP
.B /var/adm/dt/packing_list
File that contains a listing of all files shipped with the desktop. This file 
is used by the dr_dt script to check all files for existence, permissions, 
and ownership.
.PD
.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.TP
.B INFO/WARNING/ERROR
Dr_dt will issue messages prefaced by one of the above labels, depending on 
the severity of the problem. Dr_dt will also issue information that should
assist the user in determining how to correct that problem.


