...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
...\" **
.\"--- THIS IS NOT NECESSARY FOR CDE:
.\"--- The next line is the SCCS ID line, which must appear in any file
.\"--- under the control of SCCS.  It contains extraneous zero-width characters
.\"--- `\&' to prevent SCCS from interpreting it as the SCCS line for this
.\"--- template file.  Executing this template will produce a version of the
.\"--- template with these characters removed, thereby generating a valid
.\"--- SCCS line ID for your man page.
.\"---
.\"--- _source_ is where the page comes from, for example, "UCB 4.3 BSD"
.\"--- or "S5r3".  For Sun-originated pages, the "from" information may
.\"--- omitted.
.\"---
.\" %\&Z%%\&M% %\&I% %\&E% SMI; from _source_
.\"---
.TH dsdm 1X "16 Feb 1994"
.BH "16 Feb 1994"
.\"---
.SH NAME
dsdm \- Drop Site Database Manager - Motif/OPENLOOK drag and drop 
proxy agent
.LP
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dsdm
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"---
.LP
The 
\fIdsdm\fP
manages a database of all drop sites on the display. When a drag
operation is started, the 
\fIdsdm\fP
is queried for a list of the drop sites. 
This drop site information is used by the dragging application to 
identify drop sites and provide
user feedback during the drag operation.
.LP
The 
\fIdsdm\fP
provides a drag-and-drop 
gateway between Motif and OPENLOOK applications.
When an object is dropped on a drop site,
the 
\fIdsdm\fP
gets a drop message from
the drop sender application. The 
\fIdsdm\fP
then translates
the drop message, and sends the translated message
to the drop receiver application.
.\"---
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The 
\fIdsdm\fP
must be running before applications are started for the drag-and-drop
gateway feature to work. 
