.TH dtaction 1 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtaction \- invoke a Cde action with specified arguments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtaction
[\-contextDir\0\f2context_dir\fP]
[\-execHost\0\f2host_name\fP]
[\-termOpts\0\f2terminal_arguments\fP]
[\-user\0\f2user_name\fP]
\f2action_name\fP
[\f2action_arg\fP] ...
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtaction
utility allows applications or shell scripts, which are otherwise not
connected into the Cde development environment, to invoke action requests.
.P
The action called
.I action_name
is invoked with the
.I action_arg
provided on the command line.
A single
.I action_name
is required;
the user may provide any number of
.IR action_arg s.
Interpretation of the
.I action_name
and
.IR action_arg s
depends on the
definition of the action in the action database (see
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4)).
.xo .cX dtactionfile ).
The action may be defined in one of the system action database files,
or in one of the user's private action database files.
.P
The
.IR action_arg s
are absolute or relative pathnames of files.
The utility passes this list of files on to the specified action.
.P
Error dialogs are posted when the following conditions are detected:
.xo .BL
.cde .VL 3
.LI \(bu
could not initialize desktop environment
.LI \(bu
invalid user or password
.LI \(bu
unable to change ID to the desired user
.LI \(bu
no action name specified
.LE
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtaction
utility does not support the \*(Zu because it uses
the X Window System convention of full-word options.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI "\f3\-contextDir\fP \f2context_dir\fP"
.br
If the definition of
.I action_name
does not define
a current working directory (see
.Cn CWD
in
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4))
.xo .cX dtactionfile )
for command actions,
the user can use this option to specify a default directory context.
.LI "\f3\-execHost\fP \f2host_name\fP"
.br
The user can use this option to specify an alternative execution host,
.IR host_name ,
for a command action.
If the action is not a command
action, the
.Cm dtaction
utility ignores this option.
The action is attempted on
.I host_name
instead of the hosts specified in the action's
.Cn EXEC_HOST
(see
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4))
.xo .cX dtactionfile )
specification.
An error dialog is posted if it is not possible to invoke the
specified action on any eligible host.
.LI "\f3\-termOpts\fP \f2terminal_arguments\fP"
.br
This option allows the user to specify arguments intended for the terminal
emulator that is provided for command actions that are not of type
.Cn NO_STDIO .
If there are white-space characters in the
.I terminal_arguments
string,
that string must be quoted to protect it from the shell.
These arguments are passed unchanged to the terminal emulator.
The user must ensure that they are reasonable; in particular,
.I terminal_arguments
does not allow the argument that specifies the command
to be run in a terminal emulator window (that is,
.B \-e
for
.Cm dtterm 1).
.LI "\f3\-user\fP \f2user_name\fP"
.br
The
.B \-user
option allows a user to specify a user name.
If
.Cm dtaction
is not currently running as that user, a prompt dialog
collects the indicated user password, or the root user
password.
Once a valid password is entered, the
.Cm dtaction
utility changes so
that it is running as the requested user and then
initiates the requested action.
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.VL 6
.LI \f2action_name\fP
.br
The name of the action to be invoked.
.LI \f2action_arg\fP
.br
The absolute or relative file names of files.
.LE
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The input files named as
.I action_arg
arguments are
absolute or relative names of files.
.P
The action database files found on
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
conform to the format specified in
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4).
.xo .cX dtactionfile .
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variable affects the execution of
.Cm dtaction :
.VL 6
.LI \f2DTDATABASESEARCHPATH\fP
.br
A comma-separated list of directories (with optional host: prefix)
that tells the action service where to find the action databases.
.LE
.SH RESOURCES
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtaction
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
Not used.
.SH STDERR
The
.Cm dtaction
utility writes diagnostic error messages to standard error,
which is redirected to
.BR $HOME/.dt/errorlog .
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An invocation error was detected.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .BR dtactionfile (4),
.xo .cX dtactionfile ,
.Cm dtterm 1,
.Cm dtaction 1.
