.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---  Client man page template
.\"---  This is a template for doing a client man page.  For further information
.\"---  about the markup, see the general template from which this was obtained.
.\"---   It is in file man_template.
.\"--- 
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtaction 1X "17 Jan 1994"
.BH \*(DT
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
\fBdtaction\fP \(em a general purpose tool for allowing arbitrary applications
or shell scripts to invoke a Common Desktop Environment (CDE) action request.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtaction 
.\"---
.\"--- For \-options_ with arguments, use:
.\"---
[
.B \-option
.I _option_arg_ 
] ... \fIaction_name\fP [ \fIaction_arg\fP ] ...
.LP
.nf
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command does 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDtaction\fP provides a mechanism by which applications or shell scripts,
which are otherwise not connected into the communications medium used by the
unity components, can participate in the invocation of action requests.
.P
The action called \fIaction_name\fP will be invoked with the \fIaction_args\fP
provided on the command line.  A single \fIaction_name\fP is required, 
any number of \fIaction_args\fP may be provided.  Interpretation of the 
\fIaction_namefP and \fIaction_args\fP depends on the definition of the
action in the action database (see dtdtfile(4)).  the action may be
defined either in one of the system action database files, or in one of
the user's private action database files.
.PP
Typically \fIaction_args\fP
refer to file names, which may be given using \fI[host:]/path/file\fP
syntax.or simply as a relative path; a relative path is assumed to be relative
to the current working directory for the \fBdtaction\fP client. This list of
files will be passed on to the specified action.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- OPTIONS
.\"--- This section describes the command line options
.\"---
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-user " user_name"
The \fB-user\fP option allows a user name to be specified; if \fBdtaction\fP
is not currently running as that user, then a prompt dialog will be used to
collect either the password for the indicated user, or the root user password.
Once a valid password has been entered, the dtaction client will change so
that it is running as the requested user, and will then initiate the requested
action. Anytime the dtaction client changes to run as a different user, it
will be logged in the file: \fI/usr/adm/sulog\fP.
.TP
.BI \-execHost " host_name"
This option can be used to specify an alternate execution host,
\fIhost_name\fP, for a command action. If the action is not a command
action, then this option is ignored. The action will be attempted on
\fIhost_name\fP before any of the hosts specified in the action's
\fBEXEC_HOST\fP ( see dtdtfile(4)) specification.
An error dialog will be posted if it is not possible to invoke the
specified action on any eligible host.
.TP
.BI \-contextHost " context_host"
For command actions, if the definition of \fIaction_name\fP does not define
a current-working-directory  (see \fBCWD\fP in dtdtfile(4)) then this option
can be used to specify a default host context, \fIcontext_host\fP, with respect
to whose filesystem file arguments (i.e. \fIaction_args\fP ) will be
interpreted. That is, file names will be modified so as to locate files
with respect to the root of \fIcontext_host\fP's filesystem.  This is 
useful for accessing files which are only visible on a particular host.
.TP
.BI \-contextDir " context_dir"
For command actions, if the definition of \fIaction_name\fP does not define
a current-working-directory (see \fBCWD\fP in dtdtfile(4)) then this option
can be used to specify a default directory context.
.TP
.BI \-termOpts " terminal_parameters"
This option allows the user to specify parameters intended for the terminal
emulator provided for command actions which are not of type \fBNO-STDIO\fP.
If there are white space characters in the terminal_parameters string then
that string must be quoted to protect it from the shell. These parameters will
be passed unchanged to the terminal emulator. It is up to the user to insure
that they are reasonable; in particular the "-e " parameter is disallowed
in \fIterminal_parameters\fP.
.TP
.BI \-timeout " value"
After the \fBdtaction\fP client invokes the specified action, it will remain
alive until it no longer detects that any dialogues are posted for the user
(i.e. error dialogs or prompt dialogues); note that this refers only to 
dialogues displayed by the \fBdtaction\fP client, not dialogues displayed
by the action which was invoked. By default, dtaction will check every second
to see if it is safe to exit. A user can use this parameter to control the
frequency that this check occurs. \fIvalue\fP is specified in seconds.
The minimum value is 1 second. The default value is 5 seconds.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 15
0
successful return.  This indicates that the action was successfully invoked
not that any command executed by the action was successful.
.TP 15
-1
failure return.  The action was not invoked successfully.
.\"--- ------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- Resources
.\"---
.SH RESOURCES
.PP
The following resources are recognized by the \fBdtaction\fP client:
.nf
.sp
.TS
center expand allbox;
c c c c.
Name	Class	Type	Default
=
contextHost	ContextHost	XmRString	NULL
contextDir	ContextDir	XmRString	NULL
timeout	Timeout	XmRInt	5
user	User	XmRString	NULL
execHost	ExecHost	XmRString	NULL
termOpts	termOpts	XmRString	NULL
.TE
.fi
.PP
Each resources corresponds to a command-line option.  See the OPTIONS
section above for an explanation of each resource.  
.\"--- ------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- Environment variables . Delete this section if not relevant
.\"---
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.P
\fBDtaction\fP itself does not deal with environment variables, see
the CDE documentation for environment variables used by underlying
libraries.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtdtfile (4),
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
Error dialogues are posted when the following conditions are detected:
.TP
\(bu could not initialize desktop environment.
.TP
\(bu invalid user or password.
.TP
\(bu unable to change id to the desired user.
.TP
\(bu no action name specified.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Buffer and string action arguments are not supported.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Bugs? what Bugs?


