.\"--- 
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\"--- 
.TH dtappintegrate 1X "29 March. 1994"
.BH "29 March. 1994""
.SH NAME
dtappintegrate - The common Desktop Environment application integration tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtappintegrate 
.B \-s 
.I <application_root> 
[
.B \-t 
.I <target_path>
] [
.B \-l 
.I <language>
] [ 
.B \-u 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The dtappintegrate command is used during the installation process of
an application. The application installation script should invoke the
dtappintegrate command at the end. The purpose of the dtappintegrate
command is to link the application CDE configuration files from
application-specific locations to system locations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.BI \-s " application_root"
Integrate the application that is located at application_root.	 This
parameter is required. 
.TP 8
.BI \-t " target_path"
Link the application CDE configuration files from the application
specific location to target_path  
rather than to the system locations. This parameter is optional.
.TP 8
.BI \-l " language"
Specifies the language to integrate. This indicates the
directories under which to find the application CDE configuration
files. If this parameter is not specified, all languages will be
integrated. This parameter is optional.
.TP 8
.B \-u
Unintegrate the application. This will undo the integration process.
This parameter is optional. 
.SH RESOURCES
None
.SH DIRECTORIES
There are four key subdirectories, under the application root (referred to
as 
.B $APP_ROOT
), dictated by CDE policy. They are the following:
.SS $APP_ROOT/dt/appconfig/types/\f2<language>\fP
For action and datatype definition files.
.SS $APP_ROOT/dt/appconfig/appmanager/\f2<language>\fP
For application group files, and action files.
.SS $APP_ROOT/dt/appconfig/icons/\f2<language>\fP	
For icon files.
.SS $APP_ROOT/dt/appconfig/help/\f2<language>\fP
For application help files.
.PP
For example, the default-language application SpreadSheet would load
its desktop icons under: 
.B /opt/SpreadSheet/dt/appconfig/icons/C/*.bm
.P
--and--
.P
.B /opt/SpreadSheet/dt/appconfig/icons/C/*.pm
.P
--where 
.B /opt/SpreadSheet
is the value of 
.B $APP_ROOT. 
(Please note that 
.B $APP_ROOT 
is simply a syntactical convention of this document--it is not used by
the runtime environment.)
.P
Note that all of these CDE configuration files and subdirectories are
placed under a common top-- 
.B$APP_ROOT/dt/appconfig, 
and should always include the default language subdirectory, "C".
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
In the simplest case, the command takes as input the application root,
for example, /opt/thisapp. The outputs from this operation are
corresponding subdirectories and files on the application server that
contain relative 
.B symbolic 
links to the applications CDE configuration
files described above, under the following system locations:
.SS /etc/dt/appconfig		
Top-level application configuration subdirectory, consists of
following subdirectories. 
.SS /etc/dt/appconfig/types/\f2<language>\f3/		
Contains the *.dt symbolic links.
.SS /etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/\f2<language>\f3/
Contains the symbolic links to the application group 
subdirectory
.SS /etc/dt/appconfig/help/\f2<language>\f3/
Contains symbolic links to the help files installed under the
application's root. 
.SS /etc/dt/appconfig/icons/\f2<language>\f3/
Contains symbolic links to the CDE icons for the application.
.PP
If the optional 
.B \-t 
parameter is supplied, the files will be linked under the specified
subdirectory. For example, specifying 
.B \-t 
.B /etc/dt/private
would cause the application help files to be symbolically linked under
.BI /etc/dt/private/help/<language>. 
This option is typically used by system administrators who want
the applications to be integrated into a private location that is not
accessable system wide.  By default (with no -t option specified), the
applications are integrated into the 
.BI /etc/dt/appconfig 
key subdirectories making them accessable system wide.
