.TH dtappgather 1 "29 Nov, 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtappgather \- gather application files for presentation by the 
Application Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
[ \f3-r\f1 ]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
Application Manager
presents personal, system, and factory applications in
an easy-to-access window.
The
Application Manager
is implemented as a special File Manager view of a 
subdirectory that is built on a per-user, per-session basis.
The
.Cm dtappgather
utility is responsible for creating and refreshing
the user's
Application Manager 
subdirectory.
.P
The
.Cm dtappgather
utility 
is run at login and whenever the user invokes the
.B ReloadApps
action.
The user's individual subdirectory for the 
Application Manager,
.BR /var/dt/appconfig/appmanager/$DTUSERSESSION,
is opened when the user presses the Application Manager control
on the Front Panel.
.P
The sequence of events is as follows:
.VL
.LI \(bu
When the user logs in, the \f3Xsession\f1 script sources in the
.B Xsession.d
script that sets the \f2DTUSERSESSION\f1 environment
variable.
.LI \(bu
\f3Xsession\f1 then invokes the
\f3dtsearchpath\f1
utility to set the \f2DTAPPSEARCHPATH\f1 environment variable.
.LI \(bu
After 
\f3dtsearchpath\f1
returns with the \f2DTAPPSEARCHPATH\f1 assembled,
the \f3Xsession\f1 script calls
.Cm dtappgather .
.LI \(bu
As its main function,
.Cm dtappgather
traverses the \f2DTAPPSEARCHPATH\f1,
examining each possible source of applications and, where
there are existing source subdirectories, creates symbolic links between
the source and the user's \f2DTUSERSESSION\f1 subdirectory.
.LI \(bu
Finally,
.Cm dtappgather
turns off write permissions on the resulting subdirectory to ensure its
integrity.
.P
A similar sequence occurs when the user double-clicks the \f3ReloadApps\f1
action after logging in.
.P
Although the value of the \f2DTAPPSEARCHPATH\f1 can be modified in a
local shell, the
Application Manager
view based on its value is not functional until you log out and
log back in.
Since this can be a tedious venture, you can verify the
Application Manager
view by executing
.Cm dtsearchpath 1
and
.Cm dtappgather
in the local shell.
For
example, to add host
.B trout
as a system-wide
application server, set the
.Cm dtsearchpath 1
input environment variable,
.IR DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS :
.sp 1
.BR DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=trout :
.sp 1
Then, execute
.Cm dtsearchpath 1
to update the
.I DTAPPSEARCHPATH
environment
variable.
.sp 1
.B eval `dtsearchpath`
.sp 1
Finally, gather the new applications by executing
.Cm dtappgather .
The
Application Manager
will show the new application groups but will not be functional.
.LE
.SH OPTIONS
The
\f3-r\f1
option causes
.Cm dtappgather
to retain the previous contents of the Application Manager, although
discarding broken links.
At login,
.Cm dtappgather
destroys the user's previous \f2DTUSERSESSION\f1 subdirectory before
creating a new one.
At \f3ReloadApps\f1 time, the \f3-r\f1 option
is used to minimize visual disruption of any opened
Application Manager
views.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The command always returns 0 (zero) for successful completion.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.VL 15
.LI \f2DTAPPSEARCHPATH\f1
Set by the 
.Cm dtsearchpath 1
utility.
\f2DTAPPSEARCHPATH\f1 controls the places
where 
.Cm dtappgather 
will gather applications.
The default locations consist of
\f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager\f1 (for end users),
\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/$LANG\f1 (for system administrators), and
\f3/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/$LANG\f1 (for factory applications).
.LI \f2DTUSERSESSION\f1
Controls the location of the end user's subdirectory where the
Application Manager will be rooted.
The subdirectory name includes
both the user's \f2$LOGNAME\f1 and \f2$DISPLAY\f1 in order to
ensure the user's view of the Application Manager remains consistent
across sessions.
.LE
.SH LOCALES
When searching for system administrator and factory default 
Application Manager
files,
.Cm dtappgather
always uses a value of \f2$LANG\f1 equal to \f3C\f1.
When the
user picks a language at login, the corresponding \f2$LANG\f1
subdirectories are searched.
If multiple \f2$LANG\f1 subdirectories exist
in \f3/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager\f1, all \f2$LANG\f1 subdirectories will
appear in the Application Manager; however, if multiple \f2$LANG\f1
subdirectories exist in
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager
then the
language-specific subdirectory based on the current value of \f2$LANG\f1 is
chosen instead of the \f3C\f1 subdirectory.
.sp 1
Regardless of locale, all the action files that exist under the user's
\f3$HOME/.dt/appmanager\f1 subdirectory will be symbolically linked
to the user's
Application Manager
subdirectory.
.SH FILES
.VL 15
.LI \f3/usr/dt/bin/Xsession\f1
Among its tasks at login,
the \f3Xsession\f1 script invokes 
.Cm dtsearchpath 1,
and then
.Cm dtappgather .
.LI \f3/var/dt/appconfig/appmanager/$DTUSERSESSION\f1
This subdirectory is where
.Cm dtappgather
assembles the 
Application Manager
view for the particular user and CDE session.
.LE
.SH NOTES
In the case of multiple search locations having the same name,
.Cm dtappgather
picks only the first and discards the rest.
For example, if the
system administrator sets
.br
\f3DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=tuna:,trout:\f1
.br
and if both hosts, \f3tuna\f1 and \f3trout\f1, have an
\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Editors\f1 folder, then only the
\f3Editors\f1 folder from \f3tuna\f1 (the first host) will appear
in the user's Application Manager.
.sp 1
After building the user's \f3DTUSERSESSION\f1,
.Cm dtappgather
turns off write permissions on that subdirectory to disallow alteration
by the end user.
Although the end user can resize the
window and rearrange the icons within the window, the Application
Manager is intended to be a read-only source of local
and networked applications.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtappintegrate (1),
.BR dtsearchpath (1).
