.TH dtappintegrate 1 "17 June 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtappintegrate \- integrate applications into the Cde
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtappintegrate
\-s\0\f2application_root\fP
[\-t\0\f2target_path\fP]
[\-l\0\f2locale\fP]
[\-u]
[\-?]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtappintegrate
utility integrates applications into Cde.
Application installation scripts should invoke
.Cm dtappintegrate
as the last step before exiting.
The
.Cm dtappintegrate
.cde utility must be invoked with root user authority.
.xo utility requires appropriate privileges.
.P
When
.Cm dtappintegrate
is invoked with no
.I target_path
specified, it creates
symbolic links to the application's Cde configuration
files under the following default Cde system locations:
.VL 6
.LI "\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/types/\f2<locale>\f1"
.br
Contains symbolic links to the application action and datatype files
.LI "\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/\f2<locale>\f1"
.br
Contains symbolic links to the application group subdirectory
.LI "\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/help/\f2<locale>\f1"
.br
Contains symbolic links to the application help files
.LI "\f3/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/\f2<locale>\f1"
.br
Contains symbolic links to the application icons
.LE
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtappintegrate
utility supports the \*(Zu.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-s\0\f2application_root\f1
.br
Integrate the application files that are located under
.IR application_root .
The
.I application_root
is the top directory
under which all of an application's files are installed.
The
.Cm dtappintegrate
utility looks for application Cde configuration files in
the following subdirectories, with all C locale subdirectories
containing the application's default Cde configuration files:
.VL 6
.LI \f2<application_root>\f3/dt/appconfig/types/\f2<locale>\f1
.br
Contains application action and datatype files
.LI \f2<application_root>\f3/dt/appconfig/appmanager/\f2<locale>\f1
.br
Contains application group files
.\"jcd: pending resolution of naming clash of "application group" vs. "folder"
.LI \f2<application_root>\f3/dt/appconfig/icons/\f2<locale>\f1
.br
Contains application icons
.LI \f2<application_root>\f3/dt/appconfig/help/\f2<locale>\f1
.br
Contains application help files
.LE
.LI \f3\-t\0\f2target_path\f1
.br
Link the application Cde configuration files to
.I target_path
rather than to the default Cde system locations.
.LI \f3\-l\0\f2locale\f1
.br
Integrate only the files found in the
.I locale
subdirectories.
If this option is not specified, all of the application's Cde
configuration files are integrated.
.LI \f3\-u\fP
Destroy the symbolic links previously created by
.Cm dtappintegrate.
If
.B \-l
is specified with the
.B \-u
option, only the
symbolic links to the
Cde configuration files in the specified
.I locale
subdirectories
are destroyed.
.LI \f3\-?\fP
Write a help message to standard output that describes the command syntax of
.Cm dtappintegrate
and exit.
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
None.
.SH RESOURCES
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtappintegrate
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
When no option or the
.B \-?
option is used,
.Cm dtappintegrate
writes to standard output a usage message.
.P
During execution,
.Cm dtappintegrate
writes confirmation messages to standard output.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
The
.Cm dtappintegrate
utility
creates the symbolic links to the application's Cde configuration files.
.cdes
.P
During execution,
.Cm dtappintegrate
writes to the text file,
.BR /tmp/dtappint.log ,
output from the underlying
system commands it invokes.
.cdee
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 3
.LI 0
Successful completion.
.LI 2
Help message displayed.
.LI 3
Not invoked with
.cde root user authority.
.xo appropriate privileges.
.LI 4
Invalid option.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCE OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
None.
