.\"---
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\"---
'\" t
.TH dtcm_editor 1 "" "" "" ""
.ds ]W CDE 1.0 (8 May 1995)
.na
.SH NAME
\fBdtcm_editor\fP - The CDE standalone appointment editor
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtcm_editor
.RI [filename]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIdtcm_editor\fP program is a stand alone editor for files that 
represent dtcm appointments.  These files are created by either 
mailing appointments from within dtcm, or br dragging and dropping 
appointments from a \fIdtcm\fP editor dialog into some kind of 
permanent store (a \fIdtmail\fP attachment pane, or \fIdtfile\fP).

The \fIdtcm_editor\fP allows modifying these appointment files, 
and writing them back out.
.PD
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.P
The only available option is to start the \fIdtcm_editor\fP with 
a filename.  This will cause the editor to operate on that file 
and write out to that file.  If the \fIdtcm_editor\fP is started 
without a file name, it is assumed to have been invoked thru 
tooltalk, and acts as a media alliance editor.

.SH RESOURCES
.P
The application class name for dtcm_editor is \fIDtCm\fP.
The instance name is \fIdtcm_editor\fP.
.ps
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/dtcm_editor
This is the executable for dtcm_editor.
.SH ORIGIN
Sun Microsystems
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rpc.cmsd (1),
.BR dtcm (1),
.BR dtcm_delete (1),
.BR dtcm_insert (1),
.BR dtcm_lookup (1)
