.TH dtcm_insert 1 "21 July 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtcm_insert \- insert appointments into the calendar database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtcm_insert
[\-a\0\f2file\fP]
[\-c\0\f2calendar\fP]
[\-d\0\f2date\fP]
[\-s\0\f2start\fP]
[\-e\0\f2end\fP]
[\-v\0\f2view\fP]
[\-w\0\f2what\fP]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtcm_insert
utility is non-GUI interface to the Cde calendar and appointment services,
used to add new appointments to the calendar
.cde database via the RPC daemon
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1.
.xo database.
Appointments are added one at a time.
Each of the components of an
appointment can be specified using one of the command-line options.
Alternatively, if no command-line options are specified the utility
will prompt the user for the appointment information.
Once an appointment
is added, the list of appointments for the specified date
(see the
.B \-d
and
.B \-v
options) is displayed.
.P
The following 
.IR repeat
and
.IR for
values are supported:
.VL 20
.LI "\f3One Time\fP"
N/A
.LI \f3Daily\fP
Number of days
.LI \f3Weekly\fP
Number of weeks
.LI "\f3Every Two Weeks\fP"
Number of biweeks
.LI "\f3Monthly By Date\fP"
Number of months
.LI "\f3Monthly By Weekday\fP"
Number of months
.LI \f3Yearly\fP
Number of years
.LI "\f3Monday Thru Friday\fP"
Number of weeks
.LI "\f3Mon, Wed, Fri\fP"
Number of weeks
.LI "\f3Tuesday, Thursday\fP"
Number of weeks
.LE
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtcm_insert
utility supports the \*(Zu.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-a\0\f2file\f1
.br
Specify the name of a file containing calendar appointments
to insert.  The file should be in the standard calendar 
appointment format and can be created by
.cde .Cm dtcm_editor 1.
.LI \f3\-c\0\f2calendar\f1
.br
Specify the name of the target calendar.
Calendar names
.xo are implementation-dependent, but
typically take the form
.IR user @\c
.IR hostname ,
where
.I user
is a user's login name and
.I hostname
is the host machine name.
.cde An example is
.cde .BR felix@cat .
If no target calendar is specified,
the calendar defaults to
the current user at the current host machine.
.LI \f3\-d\0\f2date\f1
.br
Specify the date for the appointment(s) to be inserted.
The
.I date
is specified using the form
.IR mm /\c
.IR dd /\c
.IR yy ,
where
.IR mm ,
.I dd
and
.I yy
are the two-digit month, day and year modulo 100, respectively.
.cdes
Certain other references such as
``today,'' ``Tuesday,'' ``tomorrow,'' etc.
are correctly calculated.
.cdee
If no date is specified,
.I date
defaults to today's date.
.LI \f3\-s\0\f2start\f1
.br
Specify the starting time for the appointment.
The time is specified using the form
.IR hh :\c
.IR mm .
If
.I hh
is greater than 12, 24-hour convention (for example,
.B 15:30
instead of
.B "3:30 pm" )
is assumed.
If
.I hh
is 0 to 12,
an optional
.B am
or
.B pm
suffix can be used, with or without
white space separating the suffix from the
.IR mm .
If no suffix is used,
.B am
is assumed.
If no starting time is specified,
no time is associated with the inserted appointment.
.LI \f3\-e\0\f2end\f1
.br
The ending time for the appointment,
in the same format as
.BR \-s .
Specifying an ending time without a starting time is an error.
.LI \f3\-v\0\f2view\f1
.br
Specify the view span of appointments to display.
The
.I view
option-argument can be:
.VL 10
.LI \f3day\fP
Display all appointments for the given date (see
.B \-d
option).
.LI \f3week\fP
Display the full week that contains the given date,
starting with Sunday.
.LI \f3month\fP
Display the entire month that contains the given date.
.LE
.LI \f3\-w\0\f2what\f1
.br
Specify the appointment description text.
Up to 5 lines of text can be specified by placing \en
(the literal characters \e and n, not
.tK newline )
between lines.
If not specified,
.I what
defaults to
.BR Appointment .
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm dtcm_insert :
.VL 15
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LE
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtcm_insert
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
The standard output contains the list of appointments
for the specified view span, including the appointment just
.cde inserted.
.xo inserted, in an unspecified format.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.cdes
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /usr/spool/calendar/callog.username
.TP
.BR /usr/dt/bin/rpc.cmsd
.cdee
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
.xo None.
.cdes
In the
.B \-w
option, it may be necessary to
escape the \e character (``\e\en'') or enclose
the string in quotes
to avoid interpretation by the shell.
.cdee
.SH EXAMPLES
.xo None.
.cdes
The simplest form of
.Cm dtcm_insert
has no arguments, where the user is prompted
to enter the appointment, line-by-line:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_insert\fP
Please enter the information for the appointment you wish to add.
Defaults will be shown in parentheses.
Calendar (hlj@poobah): 
Date (2/27/1995): 
Start (0822): \f11200\fP
End (1300): 
Repeat (One Time): 
What (you may enter up to 5 lines, use ^D to finish):
\f1lunch with the calendar team
at Sparcy's
^D\fP

Appointments for Monday February 27, 1995:
	  1) 1200-   1300 lunch with the calendar team
	                     at Sparcy's
.Ce
.P
To insert at a specific time:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_insert \-s "11:00 am"\fP
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
.sp 0.5v
        2) 11:00am-12:00pm Appointment
.Ce
.P
To insert at a specific start and end time:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_insert \-s "11:00 am" \-e 11:28am\fP
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
.sp 0.5v
        2) 11:00am-11:28am Appointment
.Ce
.P
To insert at a specific time and date:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_insert \-s 11:00am \-d 09/26/90\fP
Appointments for Wednesday September 26, 1990:
        1) 11:00am-12:00pm Appointment
.Ce
.P
To insert at a specific time, date, and message:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_insert \-s "11:00 am" \-d 09/26/90 \-w "call home"\fP
Appointments for Wednesday September 26, 1990:
        1) 11:00am-12:00pm Appointment
        2) 11:00am-12:00pm call home
.Ce
.P
To insert a multiple-line appointment:
.Cs I
dtcm_insert \-s 12:00 \-w "call dentist\en
                 no thanks\encancel appointment"\fP
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
.sp 0.5v
        2) 11:00am-12:00pm Appointment
.sp 0.5v
        3) 12:00pm-1:00pm call dentist
                 no thanks
                 cancel appointment
.Ce
.cdee
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1,
.cde .Cm dtcm 1,
.Cm dtcm_editor 1,
.Cm dtcm_delete 1,
.Cm dtcm_lookup 1.
