.TH dtcm_lookup 1 "8 May 1995"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtcm_lookup \- look up appointments from the calendar database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtcm_lookup
[\-c\0\f2calendar\fP]
[\-d\0\f2date\fP]
[\-v\0\f2view\fP]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtcm_lookup
utility is a non-GUI interface to the CDE calendar and appointment services,
used to look up appointments from the calendar
.cde database via the RPC daemon
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1.
.xo database.
Each component of the calendar entry is specified using one
of the command-line options.
The current list of appointments for the specified date
(see the
.B \-d
and
.B \-v
options) is displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtcm_lookup
utility supports the \*(Zu.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-c\0\f2calendar\f1
.br
Specify the name of the target calendar.
Calendar names
.xo are implementation-dependent, but
typically take the form
.IR user @\c
.IR hostname ,
where
.I user
is a user's login name and
.I hostname
is the host machine name.
.cde An example is
.cde .BR felix@cat .
If no target calendar is specified,
the calendar defaults to
the current user at the current host machine.
.LI \f3\-d\0\f2date\f1
.br
Specify the date for the look up query.
The
.I date
is specified using the form
.IR mm /\c
.IR dd /\c
.IR yy ,
where
.IR mm ,
.I dd
and
.I yy
are the two-digit month, day and year modulo 100, respectively.
.cdes
Certain other references such as
``today,'' ``Tuesday,'' ``tomorrow,'' etc.
are correctly calculated.
.cdee
If no date is specified,
.I date
defaults to today's date.
.LI \f3\-v\0\f2view\f1
.br
Specify the view span of appointments to display.
The
.I view
option-argument can be:
.VL 10
.LI \f3day\fP
Display all appointments for the given date (see
.B \-d
option).
.LI \f3week\fP
Display the full week that contains the given date,
starting with Sunday.
.LI \f3month\fP
Display the entire month that contains the given date.
.LE
.cdes
.P
If the
.I view
option-argument is not specified, the viewing range defaults to the view
range specified by the user's
.Cm dtcm
options sheet.
If the user has
not specified a range in his or her options sheet, it defaults to the
.B day
value.
.cdee
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm dtcm_lookup :
.VL 15
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LE
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtcm_lookup
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
The standard output contains the list of appointments
for the specified view
.cde span.
.xo span, in an unspecified format.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.cdes
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /usr/spool/calendar/callog.username
.TP
.BR /usr/dt/bin/rpc.cmsd
.cdee
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.xo None.
.cdes
The simplest form of
.B dtcm_lookup
has no arguments:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_lookup\fP
Appointments for Tuesday March 29, 1994:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:30am-10:45am Morning Tea
        3) 2:00pm-3:00pm Staff meeting
        4) 4:30pm-5:00pm Phone home
.Ce
.P
To look up entries for a specific date:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_lookup \-d 03/29/94\fP
Appointments for Wednesday March 30, 1994:
        1) 11:00am-12:00pm Appointment
        2) 11:30am-12:30pm Group Lunch
        3) 4:00pm-5:00pm Tech Interview
.Ce
.P
To look up entries from a specific target calendar:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_lookup \-c felix@cat\fP
Appointments for Tuesday March 29, 1994:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        3) 11:15am-11:30am Doughnuts
        4) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        5) 3:30pm-3:45pm Snack
        6) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.Ce
.P
To look up an entire week's appointments:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_lookup \-v week\fP
Appointments for Sunday March 27, 1994:
        1) 6:00am-5:00pm Hiking
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Monday March 28, 1994:
        2) 11:00am-11:30am Sync with East Coast
        3) 4:00pm-4:15pm Confirm flight
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Tuesday March 29, 1994:
        4) Appointment
        5) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        6) 11:15am-11:30am Doughnuts
        7) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        8) 3:30pm-3:45pm Snack
        9) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Wednesday March 30, 1994:
       10) 11:00am-11:15am Appointment
       11) 11:30am-12:30pm Group Lunch
       12) 4:00pm-5:00pm Tech Interview
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Friday April 1, 1994:
       13) Documentation
       14) 10:00am-11:00am Staff meeting
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Saturday April 2, 1994:
       15) 9:00am-11:00am Raquetball with Debbie
.Ce
.P
Notice that Thursday does not appear, since there were no appointments
on that day.
.cdee
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1,
.cde .Cm dtcm 1,
.Cm dtcm_editor 1,
.Cm dtcm_insert 1,
.Cm dtcm_delete 1.
