.TH dtcm_admin 1 "9 March 1992"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtcm_admin \- administer the calendar and appointment services database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtcm_admin
[\-d]
[\-a\0\f2action\fP]
[\-c\0\f2calendar\fP]
[\-s\0\f2start_date\fP]
[\-e\0\f2end_date\fP]
[\-f\0\f2filename\fP]
.yE
.P
.yS
dtcm_admin
\-h
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtcm_admin
utility is the administration interface to the Cde calendar and
appointment services,
used to archive and restore data from user calendars.
.P
Archiving calendar information dumps
data from the calendar's database within a specified date range,
and stores it in an archive file for backup or other purposes.
.cdes
This allows the user to
limit the amount of redundant historical data in a calendar, saving
disk space and improving the performance of the calendar database manager
.Cm rpc.cmsd 1.
.cdee
.P
By default,
.Cm dtcm_admin
performs a nondestructive operation, which is
useful for backup or data transfer between calendars;
the
.B \-d
removes the archived data from the calendar.
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtcm_admin
utility supports the \*(Zu.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-a\0\f2action\f1
.br
Specify the operation to be performed.
The supported argument values are
.B archive
and
.BR restore .
The default action is to archive data.
.LI \f3\-c\0\f2calendar\f1
.br
Specify the name of the calendar on which
.I action
will be performed.
Permission to perform the operation is required.
Calendar names
.xo are implementation-dependent, but
typically take the form
.IR user @\c
.IR hostname ,
where
.I user
is a user's login name and
.I hostname
is the host machine name.
.cde An example is
.cde .BR felix@cat .
If no target calendar is specified,
the calendar defaults to
the current user at the current host machine.
.LI \f3\-d\fP
Delete the data from the calendar after archiving it.
By default the data is not deleted.
This only has an effect for archive operations.
.LI \f3\-h\fP
Write a usage help message to standard output and terminate.
.cde All other options are ignored.
.LI \f3\-s\0\f2start_date\f1
.br
Specify the beginning of a date range that constrains the effect of the
operation.
The
.I start_date
option-argument is in the form
.IR mmddyy ,
where
.IR mm ,
.I dd
and
.I yy
are the two-digit month, day and year modulo 100, respectively.
The granularity of the range is one day, meaning that the
operation is performed on every calendar entry whose start time
falls from 00:00 on the specified
.I start_date
date to 23:59, inclusive, on the
.I end_date
date.
If
.I start_date
is not specified, all the entries in the calendar dated before or on the
.I end_date
date are processed.
If
.I end_date
is not specified, all the entries in the calendar dated on or after the
.I start_date
date are processed.
If neither
.B \-s
nor
.B \-e
is specified, the operation is performed for the entire input data set.
.LI \f3\-e\0\f2end_date\f1
.br
Specify the end of a date range that constrains the effect of the operation,
in the same format as
.BR \-s .
.LI \f3\-f\0\f2filename\f1
.br
Specify the name of a file
for the output of an archive operation
or input to a restore operation.
If this option is omitted,
archived data is sent to standard output and
data for a restore operation is taken from the standard input.
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
When
.B \-a\ restore
is specified,
the standard input is archived data
.xo in the format described in
.xo .cX calapptfmt .
.cde produced by a previous invocation of
.cde .Cm dtcm_admin .
The standard input is used only if no
.B \-f
.I filename
option is specified.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
When
.B \-a\ restore
and
.B \-f
.I filename
are specified,
the input file named by
.I filename
is archived data
.xo in the format described in
.xo .cX calapptfmt .
.cde produced by a previous invocation of
.cde .Cm dtcm_admin .
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm dtcm_admin :
.VL 15
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LE
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtcm_admin
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
Unless
.B \-a\ restore
and
.B \-f
.I filename
are specified,
the standard output contains the archived data
.xo in the format described in
.xo .cX calapptfmt .
.cde suitable for later restores by
.cde .Cm dtcm_admin .
If
.B \-f
.I filename
is specified, the standard output is not used.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
If
.B \-a\ archive
and
.B \-f
.I filename
are specified,
the file named by
.I filename
contains the archived data
.xo in the format described in
.xo .cX calapptfmt .
.cde suitable for later restores by
.cde .Cm dtcm_admin .
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.cdes
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /usr/spool/calendar/callog.username
.TP
.BR /usr/dt/bin/rpc.cmsd
.cdee
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following archives calendar data up to the end of 1993:
.Cs I
dtcm_admin \-a archive \-e 123193 \-f calendar.1993
.Ce
.P
The following merges another user's calendar data into
the user's calendar:
.Cs I
dtcm_admin \-a archive \-c theboss@bigcheese | dtcm_admin \-a restore
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1,
.cde .Cm dtcm 1,
.Cm dtcm_delete 1,
.Cm dtcm_insert 1,
.Cm dtcm_lookup 1.
