.TH dtcm_delete 1 "8 May 1995"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtcm_delete \- delete appointments from the calendar database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtcm_delete
[\-c\0\f2calendar\fP]
[\-d\0\f2date\fP]
[\-v\0\f2view\fP]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtcm_delete
utility is a non-GUI interface to the Cde calendar and appointment services,
used to delete appointments from the calendar
.cde database via the RPC daemon
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1.
.xo database.
Appointments are deleted one at a time.
Each of the components of an
appointment is specified using one of the command-line options.
The current list of appointments for the specified date
(see the
.B \-d
and
.B \-v
options) is displayed,
numbered sequentially starting with 1.
The user is prompted for the number to delete.
Once an appointment
is deleted, the list of remaining appointments is redisplayed.
At this point
the user can specify another number, or just
.tK carriage-return
to quit.
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtcm_delete
utility supports the \*(Zu.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-c\0\f2calendar\f1
.br
Specify the name of the target calendar.
Calendar names
.xo are implementation-dependent, but
typically take the form
.IR user @\c
.IR hostname ,
where
.I user
is a user's login name and
.I hostname
is the host machine name.
.cde An example is
.cde .BR felix@cat .
If no target calendar is specified,
the calendar defaults to
the current user at the current host machine.
.LI \f3\-d\0\f2date\f1
.br
Specify the date for the appointment(s) to be deleted.
The
.I date
is specified using the form
.IR mm /\c
.IR dd /\c
.IR yy ,
where
.IR mm ,
.I dd
and
.I yy
are the two-digit month, day and year modulo 100, respectively.
.cdes
Certain other references such as
``today,'' ``Tuesday,'' ``tomorrow,'' etc.
are correctly calculated.
.cdee
If no date is specified,
.I date
defaults to today's date.
.LI \f3\-v\0\f2view\f1
.br
Specify the view span of appointments to display.
The
.I view
option-argument can be:
.VL 10
.LI \f3day\fP
Display all appointments for the given date (see
.B \-d
option).
.LI \f3week\fP
Display the full week that contains the given date,
starting with Sunday.
.LI \f3month\fP
Display the entire month that contains the given date.
.LE
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
The standard input is used to receive user
replies to the list of appointments to be deleted.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm dtcm_delete :
.VL 15
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LE
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtcm_delete
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
The standard output contains the list of appointments to be
.cde deleted.
.xo deleted, in an unspecified format.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.cdes
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /usr/spool/calendar/callog.username
.TP
.BR /usr/dt/bin/rpc.cmsd
.cdee
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
.xo None.
.cdes
The simplest form of
.Cm dtcm_delete
has no arguments:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_delete\fP
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:30am-10:45am Morning Tea
        3) 2:00pm-3:00pm Staff meeting
        4) 4:30pm-5:30pm Phone home
Item to delete (number)? \f12\fP
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 2:00pm-3:00pm Staff meeting
        3) 4:30pm-5:30pm Phone home
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)?
.Ce
.P
To delete at a specific date:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_delete \-d 09/26/90\fP
Appointments for Wednesday September 26, 1990:
        1) 11:00am-12:00pm Appointment
        2) 11:30am-12:30pm Group Lunch
        3) 4:00pm-5:00pm Tech Interview
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)? \f11\fP
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Wednesday September 26, 1990:
        1) 11:30am-12:30pm Group Lunch
        2) 4:00pm-5:00pm Tech Interview
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)?
.Ce
.P
To delete from a specific target calendar:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_delete \-c felix@cat\fP
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        3) 11:15am-11:30am Doughnuts
        4) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        5) 3:30pm-3:45pm Snack
        6) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)? \f15\fP
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        3) 11:15am-11:30am Doughnuts
        4) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        5) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)?
.Ce
.P
To delete multiple appointments:
.Cs I
\f1dtcm_delete\fP
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        3) 11:15am-11:30am Doughnuts
        4) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        5) 3:30pm-3:45pm Snack
        6) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)? \f15\fP
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        3) 11:15am-11:30am Doughnuts
        4) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        5) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)? \f13\fP
.sp 0.5v
Appointments for Tuesday September 25, 1990:
        1) Appointment
        2) 10:15am-10:30am Coffee
        3) 2:00pm-2:15pm Coffee
        4) 4:30pm-4:45pm Coffee
.sp 0.5v
Item to delete (number)?
.Ce
.cdee
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.cde .Cm rpc.cmsd 1,
.cde .Cm dtcm 1,
.Cm dtcm_editor 1,
.Cm dtcm_insert 1,
.Cm dtcm_lookup 1.
