.TH dtcm 1 "4 April 1995"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtcm \(em the CDE Calendar Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtcm
[\-c\0\f2calendar\fP]
[\-p\0\f2printer\fP]
[\-v\0\f2view\fP]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtcm
utility is the GUI for CDE appointment and resource
scheduling.
It can be used to:
.VL 3
.LI \(bu
Display day, week, month, and year views of the user's calendar
.LI \(bu
Schedule single or repeating calendar entries
.LI \(bu
Browse and edit another user's calendar
.LI \(bu
Schedule reminders to give the user notice of events
.LI \(bu
Restrict access to the user's calendar
.LI \(bu
Print high-quality hardcopy
.LI \(bu
View and Schedule entries for a group of calendars
.LI \(bu
Change the time zone context
.LI \(bu
Announce appointments via electronic mail
.LI \(bu
Schedule appointments received in electronic mail
.LE
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available
along with  all of the standard X Toolkit command-line options:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-c\0\f2calendar\f1
.br
Specifies the calendar to display.
The default value is equivalent to
.BR $USER@$HOST .
.LI \f3\-p\0\f2printer\f1
.br
Specifies the default printer.
The default is the system's default printer.
.LI \f3\-v\0\f2view\f1
.br
Specifies the initial view.
Values can be
.BR day ,
.BR week ,
.BR month
or
.BR year .
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm dtcm :
.VL 15
.LI \f2HOME\fP
Determine the user's home directory,
the location of configuration files.
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting,
dtcm behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LI \f2XAPPLRESDIR\fP
Specify the name of a directory that contains application-specific resources.
If this environment variable
is defined, and is set to an existing directory, then it is searched (in
addition to the standard locations) for files containing
application-specific resource specifications.
.LI \f2XENVIRONMENT\fP
.br
Specify the name of a resource file with
user- or machine-specific resources.
If this variable is not defined,
.Cm dtcm
looks for a file named
.BR $HOME/.Xdefaults- \c
.I hostname
instead,
where
.I hostname
is the name of the host where the application is executing.
.LI \f2XFILESEARCHPATH\fP
.br
Define a language-dependent location of
.BR app-defaults .
.LI \f2XMODIFIER\fP
Specify which input method to use.
.LI \f2XUSERFILESEARCHPATH\fP
.br
Control where X applications look for their
.B app-defaults
resource files.
The default is located in the directory
.BR /usr/dt/app-defaults .
The user must set
.I XUSERFILESEARCHPATH
if the user's resource
files are not in this location.
.LE
.SH "RESOURCES"
The
.Cm dtcm
utility allows the user to specify behavior through X11 resources
as well as the command-line interface.
The application class name for
.Cm dtcm
is
.BR Dtcm .
To set application resources, the user can copy the system default version of
the file
.B /usr/dt/app-defaults/<LANG>/Dtcm
to a personal version
(typically
.BR $HOME/app-defaults/Dtcm ,
but the location is dependent on the value of the
.I XAPPLRESDIR
environment variable)
and edit it with the appropriate changes.
The following are the supported resources and their default values:
.P
.cde .ne 10
.DS
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde center expand tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 .
Basic Resources
_
Name@Class@Type@Default
_
labelFont@LabelFont@XmRFontList@\f2varies\fP
viewFont@ViewFont@XmRFontList@\f2varies\fP
boldFont@BoldFont@XmRFontList@\f2varies\fP
iconFont@IconFont@XmRFontList@-dt-application-bold-r-normal-
@@@   sans-*-180-*-*-p-*-*-*:
application-@Application-@XmRXmString@application
   FontFamily@   FontFamily
.TE
.P
.VL 6
.LI \f3labelFont\fP
.br
Specifies the font to use for the labels in the calendar's views.
.LI \f3viewFont\fP
.br
Specifies the font to use for the text of the appointments in the
calendar's views.
.LI \f3boldFont\fP
.br
Specifies the font to use for the time ranges in the week view.
.LI \f3iconFont\fP
.br
Specifies the icon font.
.LI \f3applicationFontFamily\fP
.br
Specifies the font family name to use for the text of the
appointments in the calendar's views.
A font will be used
with this family name and appropriate size to match the
system font size chosen via
.Cm dtstyle 1.
The
.B viewFont
and
.B boldFont
resources have a higher precedent than
.BR applicationFontFamily .
.LE
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtcm
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
Not used.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
A
.I calendar
is a persistent entity existing somewhere on the network,
which contains scheduling data for a
.IR user .
A
.I "calendar entry"
is an event recorded within the context of a calendar.
Calendar entries supported by
.Cm dtcm
are
.I appointment
and
.IR to-do .
Calendar entries can be
.I single
or
.I repeat
entries.
A calendar entry may have one or more
.I reminders
associated with it.
A reminder causes
.Cm dtcm
to notify the user by issuing an
.I alarm
when the system time enters the user's specified
.I "reminder notice period"
before the event.
When viewing the user's calendar, there is the notion of the
.IR "current date" ,
which is the date the user last selected by selecting the Day View,
or by clicking in any of the other views.
The current date does not change until the user selects
another date, even if he or she
has navigated out of a view that would contain
the current date.
.P
The
.Cm dtcm
utility presents a
.IR "network calendar model" .
To operate on a calendar
belonging to some user on the network,
.Cm dtcm
establishes a session with a
.IR "calendar server" .
The calendar server is (conceptually at least)
a separate process running on the host where the calendar is located.
It manages all the calendars for the host on which it is running, and
can service multiple connected applications simultaneously.
The calendar server responds to authentication, session control and
calendar transactions initiated by
.Cm dtcm .
In addition,
.Cm dtcm
responds to
events occurring at the server, such as updates caused by other connected
application instances.
.HU Usage
The
.Cm dtcm
utility has a single main window, containing a graphical calendar.
The user can choose to view day, week, month or year in the main window.
Navigating between the views is achieved by selecting the view from the
.I View
menu, or by clicking one of the navigation buttons displayed
in the current view.
.VL 6
.LI "\f3File Menu\fP"
.VL 6
.LI "\f3Print Current View\fP"
.br
Prints hard-copy based on the currently displayed calendar view.
.LI "\f3Print .\|.\|.\fP"
Allows the user to specify parameters for a print job, such as
number of copies, orientation, scaling, report type.
.LI "\f3Options .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays default options for all of
.Cm dtcm 's
global attributes.
.LI "\f3Exit\fP"
Terminates the
.Cm dtcm
application.
.LE
.LI "\f3Edit Menu\fP"
.VL 6
.LI "\f3Appointment .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays the appointment editor, described below.
.LI "\f3ToDo .\|.\|.\fP"
Displays the To Do editor, described below.
.LE
.LI "\f3View Menu\fP"
.VL 6
.LI "\f3Day\fP"
Changes the current view in the main window to Day View.
.LI "\f3Week\fP"
Changes the current view in the main window to Week View.
.LI "\f3Month\fP"
Changes the current view in the main window to Month View.
.LI "\f3Year\fP"
Changes the current view in the main window to Year View.
.LI "\f3Appointment List .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays the
.I "Appointment List"
dialog box.
.LI "\f3ToDo List .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays the
.I "ToDo List"
dialog box.
.LI "\f3Find .\|.\|.\fP"
Displays the
.I Find
dialog box, so the user can locate
calendar entries by specifying some search criteria.
.LI "\f3Go to Date .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays the
.I "Go to Date"
dialog, so the user can
change the view to a specified date.
This is a convenient
way to get to dates that are distant from the current date.
.LI "\f3Time Zone\fP"
Displays the
.I "Time Zone"
dialog, so the user can
set the time zone to which appointment times are relative.
.LE
.LI "\f3Browse Menu\fP"
.VL 6
.LI "\f3Show Other Calendar .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays a dialog box,
in the main window,
to let the user connect to a different calendar than
the one currently displayed.
Only a single calendar is displayed at once.
.LI "\f3Compare Calendars .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays the
.I "Compare Calendars"
dialog box, described below.
.LI "\f3Menu Editor .\|.\|.\fP"
.br
Displays a dialog box that allows the user to add frequently used calendars
to the
.I Browse
menu for this and future sessions with
.Cm dtcm .
.LI "\f3<user>@<host>\fP"
.sp -0.4v
.LI "\f3\&.\|.\|.\fP"
This sequence of entries consists of the user's own calendar, followed by
an optional list of calendars that the user can add to the menu using the
.I "Menu Editor 
option described above.
The user's own calendar always appears first.
The other options are listed in alphabetical order.
.LE
.LE
.HU "Secondary Windows"
In addition to the main window,
.Cm dtcm
has several secondary windows,
which give the user access to the scheduling and browsing features of
.Cm dtcm .
.P
The
.I "Appointment Editor"
allows scheduling of appointments.
An appointment
is the most common type of calendar entry.
It is useful for scheduling time slots in the user's
calendar, and can be exported to other users either by
direct entry to their calendars, or through electronic mail.
To invoke the appointment editor, the user selects it from the
.I Edit
menu in the main window, or double-clicks anywhere in the
graphical calendar view.
.P
The
.I "To Do Editor"
allows the user to maintain a list of to-do items for his or her
personal use.
To-do entries are not visible to other
.Cm dtcm
users who
are browsing the user's calendar; they are private to the user.
To-do entries differ
from appointments in that they do not necessarily appear as scheduled events
in the user's calendar views.
If a to-do entry has a
.I "Due Date"
associated with it,
it will be displayed in the calendar view.
The main purpose of to-do entries
is to allow the user to maintain a list of work items, without necessarily
allocating calendar time for them.
The to-do editor is invoked by selecting
it from the
.I Edit
menu in the main window.
.P
The
.I "Group Appointment Editor"
allows the user to schedule an appointment on
multiple calendars at once.
It is invoked by clicking
.I Schedule
in the
.I "Compare Calendars"
window.
The user may optionally
announce the appointment over electronic mail.
.P
The
.I "Compare Calendars"
window allows the user to connect to several calendars
simultaneously, and get a graphical overview of busy and available time
in the resultant ``virtual calendar.''
The compare calendars window is invoked by
selecting it from the
.I Browse
menu in the main window.
.P
The
.I Options
window, accessible from the
.I File
menu, gives the user access
to the
.Cm dtcm
options that the user can configure.
There are several
categories of options:
Editor Defaults; Display Settings; Access List and
Permissions; Printer Settings and Date Format.
The user can set the options to suit his or her
requirements, and save them by clicking
.IR Apply .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.cdes
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/dtcm
The executable for
.Cm dtcm .
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/app-defaults/<LANG>/Dtcm
The system-default application defaults file for
.Cm dtcm .
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/appconfig/types/<LANG>/dtcm.dt
The file of default calendar-specific actions.
See
.BR dtactionfile (4).
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/rpc/rpc.cmsd
The calendar daemon (server) that manages calendars on a machine.
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/calendar/callog.<user>
The persistent calendar database for a user on this machine.
.cdee
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm rpc.cmsd 1,
.Cm dtcm_delete 1,
.Cm dtcm_editor 1,
.Cm dtcm_insert 1,
.Cm dtcm_lookup 1,
.BR dtactionfile (4),
.BR X11 (7).
