.\"--- 
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\"--- 
.TH dtconfig 1 "09 February 1995"
.BH "09 February -1995"
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
dtconfig \- desktop configuration utility
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtconfig 
[
.BR \-d \||\|\c
.BR \-e \||\|\c
.BR \-kill \||\|\c
.BR \-reset \||\|\c
.BR \-p \||\|\c
.BR \-inetd \||\|\c
.B \-inetd.ow
]
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command does 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
Desktop configuration utility.  Integrates CDE with the 
operating system of the underlying platform.  System root login privilege is 
required to use 
.BR dtconfig . 
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Disables desktop auto-start feature.  At end of boot cycle, platform's native 
text based login mechanism will be used.
.TP
.B \-e
Enable's desktop auto-start feature.  Desktop login window will display at end
of platform's boot cycle.
.TP
.B \-kill
Kill desktop (window based) login process and any user sessions associated with
it.  Return control to system's native text based console.
.TP
.B \-reset
Tell desktop (window based) login process to reread its configuration files
to incorporate any changes.
.TP
.B \-p
Printer actions for any printer known to platform will be created if such print
actions do not already exist in the platform's actions database.  This option
is executed automatically at boot time if desktop auto-start has been enabled.
.TP
.B \-inetd
Adds /usr/dt/bin daemons to the /etc/inetd.conf file.  Specific CDE background
daemon setup includes rpc.ttdbserverd (ToolTalk), rpc.cmsd (Calendar Manager), 
and dtspcd (subprocess control).  This -inetd option is called automatically
by Solaris CDE package installs.  This -inetd option is also useful for CDE 
daemon setup outside of normal Solaris CDE install, including system setup 
where /usr/dt has simply been mounted from some remote fileserver exporting 
the /usr/dt directory.
.TP
.B \-inetd.ow
Switches the ToolTalk and Calendar Manager daemons (rpc.ttdbserverd & rpc.cmsd)
start lines in /etc/inetd.conf back to the older /usr/openwin/bin area.  This
option is called automatically by Solaris CDE package remove scripts when 
needed.  It is also useful outside of normal Solaris package remove operations
when /usr/dt is about to be manually removed our unmounted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 15
0
Successful completion
.TP
>0
Error condition
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/dt/bin/dtconfig 		location of dtconfig utility 
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtlogin (1),
.BR dtprintinfo (1)
