.\"---
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\"---
.TH dterror.ds 1 "22 April 1995""
.BH "22 April 1995""
.SH NAME
dterror.ds - simple error/notice dialog utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
dterror.ds  message_text  dialog_title  button_label 
.SH DESCRIPTION
This dtksh script can be used by applications or actions to display an 
error dialog when it would be difficult or impossible to do in the context 
of the executing program. For example, it can be used when exec fails in a
child process or if an error is detected before an application's main
window can be realized. It can also be used from a shell script to
display an error dialog.
.P
This script is used by several system actions to display error dialogs
or event notices.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp .5
.SS /usr/dt/bin/dterror.ds 'Action XYZ problem'  'notice'  'continue' 
Executed from a command line, this displays a dialog. The dialog
consists of the message text, "Action XYZ problem", the "continue"
button, within a dialog with title of "notice".  Clicking on button 
dismisses the dialog.
.sp .5
.SS execl(/usr/dt/bin/dtfile_error, /usr/dt/bin/dtfile_error, 
          message_text, dialog_title, button_label, NULL);
Executed from within a program, this displays notice dialog constructed 
from the specified strings: message_text, dialog_title, and button_label.
Same result as when executed from command line.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtfile_error (1X),
.BR dtksh (1)
