.TH dtexec 1 "12 Apr 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtexec \- execute command-based action
.iX "dtexec"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtexec [\-open \f2open_option\fP ] [ \-ttprocid \f2procid\fP ] [ \-tmp \f2tmpfile\fP ] \f2cmd\fP [ \f2cmd_arg ...\fP ]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cde uses the
.Cm dtexec 
utility to execute
.Cn COMMAND
actions.
In normal
usage, Cde automatically invokes
.Cm dtexec
when it is needed.
Cde users
and administrators do not need to interact directly with
.Cm dtexec .
.P
The primary argument for
.Cm dtexec 
is the name of a command to execute and
any command-line options or arguments for that command.
There are 
several important services that
.Cm dtexec 
provides for the commands that it executes.
These services are controlled via the options specified in the ``OPTIONS''
section in this document.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.VL 15
.LI "\f3-open\fP \f2open_option\fP"
The \f3-open\fP option tells
.Cm dtexec 
whether it should continue to run or 
exit after the command terminates.
.P
The valid values for 
\f2open_option\fP are:
.VL 6
.LI \f3-1\fP
(default) continue to execute after \f2cmd\fP terminates.
.LI \f30\fP
exit as soon as \f2cmd\fP terminates.
.LI \f3n\fP
continue to execute if \f2cmd\fP terminates
within \f3n\fP seconds of starting.
.LE
.P
The values \f3-1\fP and \f3n\fP are typically used when
.Cn COMMAND
actions are executed in a terminal emulator to control
the lifetime of the terminal window.
.LI "\f3-ttprocid\fP \f2procid\fP"
The
.Cm dtexec 
command uses the \f3-ttprocid\fP option
to send ToolTalk messages
back to the application that invoked the
.Cn COMMAND
action.
These
messages are used to convey status information (for example, the command
has terminated).
.LI "\f3-tmp\fP \f2tmpfile\fP"
The \f3-tmp\fP option names a temporary file that
.Cm dtexec 
removes after \f2cmd\fP terminates if either no \f2-ttprocid\fP option is
supplied or contact is lost with the specified \f2procid\fP.
In normal usage, the parent process that starts
.Cm dtexec ,
performs this cleanup.
This option can be issued multiple times, once for each tmp file present.
Typically, \f2tmpfile\fP also appears as a \f2cmd_arg\fP.
.LE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 6
.LI \f30\fP
Implies all system resources were available to fork and exec the requested
command, not that the requested command executed successfully.
.LI \f31\fP
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Normally, application programs do not directly invoke this program.
Normally, an application program links with the
action service, which then invokes
.Cm dtexec 
as needed.
Applications should use the
\f3waitTime\fP resource to configure the value of the
\f2\-open_option\fP and the \f3DtexecPath\fP resource to configure
the location of
.Cm dtexec .
.P
If \f2cmd\fP writes to stderr, the error messages are time stamped
and redirected to the user's errorlog file (\f3$HOME/.dt/errorlog\fP)
when \f2open_option\fP is \f30\fP.  If \f2open_option\fP is set
otherwise, the error messages are typically displayed in the
terminal window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtaction 1,
\f3dtactionfile\fP(4).










