.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Hewlett-Packard Company 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 International Business Machines Corp. 
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **  
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1993,1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" *************************************************************************
.\"---  Client man page template
.\"---  This is a template for doing a client man page.  For further information
.\"---  about the markup, see the general template from which this was obtained.
.\"---   It is in file man_template.
.\"--- 
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtexec 1X "12 Apr 1994"
.BH \*(DT
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
\fBdtexec\fP \(em A "wrapper" program for \fBCOMMAND\fP actions.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtexec
[
.B \-open
.I open_option
]
[
.B \-ttprocid
.I procid
]
[
.B \-tmp
.I tmpfile
]
.I cmd
[
.I cmd_arg ...
]
.LP
.nf
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command does 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdtexec\fP utility is used by the action invocation layer within the 
Common Desktop Environment (CDE) to manage \fBCOMMAND\fP actions.  In normal
usage \fBdtexec\fP is invoked automatically by CDE when it is needed.  Users
and administrators of CDE do not need to interact directly with \fBdtexec\fP.
.PP
The primary argument for \fBdtexec\fP is the name of a command to execute 
and any command-line options or arguments for that command.  There are 
several important services that \fBdtexec\fP provides for the commands 
that it executes.  These services are controlled via the options that
are specified below.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- OPTIONS
.\"--- This section describes the command line options
.\"---
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.BI \-open " open_option" 
The \fB-open\fP option tells dtexec whether it should continue to run or 
exit after the command terminates.  This option is used when
COMMAND actions are executed in a terminal emulator to control
the lifetime of the terminal window.  The legal values for 
\fIopen_option\fP are:
.PP
\fB-1\fP - (default) continue to execute after \fIcmd\fP terminates, thus
keeping the terminal window open
.PP
\fB0\fP - exit as soon as \fIcmd\fP terminates, thus allowing the terminal
window to close
.PP
\fBn\fP - continue to execute if \fIcmd\fP terminates
within \fBn\fP seconds of starting. 
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP
.BI \-ttprocid " procid"
The \fB-ttprocid\fP option is used by dtexec to send ToolTalk messages
back to the application that invoked the COMMAND action.  These
messages are used to convey status information (e.g. the command
has terminated) and support calls such as DtActionQuit().
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP
.BI \-tmp " tmpfile"
The \fB-tmp\fP option names a temporary file that dtexec will remove after
\fIcmd\fP terminates if either no -ttprocid option is supplied or contact
is lost with the specified procid.
In normal usage this cleanup is performed by the parent process that 
starts dtexec and not by dtexec.
 This option can be issued multiple times, once for each tmp file present.
.PP
N.B. It is typical that \fItmpfile\fP also appears as a \fIcmd_arg\fP.
.\"--- ------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- Return Value
.\"---
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBdtexec\fP returns 0 if successful; otherwise it returns 1.
Successful return from dtexec implies system resources were available
to fork and exec the requested command, not that the requested command
itself executed successfully.
.\"--- ------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- Resources
.\"---
.SH RESOURCES
\fBdtexec\fP is not an X client and has no windows or resources of its
own.  It's behavior can be modified by setting resources in the
CDE components that invoke actions.  The following component
resource classes and resource names will effect the behavior of
Dtexec:

\fBWaitTime\fP or \fBwaitTime\fP -- if a command terminates in less
than \fBWaitTime\fP seconds then the terminal emulator window will be
kept open.  The default \fBWaitTime\fP is 3 seconds.

\fBDtexecPath\fP or \fBdtexecPath\fP -- specifies the location of the
\fBdtexec\fP executable.  The default location is "/opt/dt/bin/dtexec".

\fBLocalTerminal\fP or \fBlocalTerminal\fP -- specifies the name of
the terminal emulator which will be used when invoking actions that
require a terminal interface.  The terminal emulator must support
the following options:

-n icon-name 
-title window-title
-geometry <W+H+/-X+/-Y>
-name resource-name
-e execute-string

The default value of this resource is "dtterm" the CDE Terminal
Emulator.  For example, if you want the CDE File Manager to keep
terminal windows open for actions that complete in less than 5
seconds, set the following resource:  "Dtfile*WaitTime:  5".  If
you want all CDE clients to use a custom version of \fBdtexec\fP
called mydtexec set the following resource:  "*dtexecPath: /foo/mydtexec".
If you want the \fBdtaction\fP client to use "xterm" instead
of "dtterm" for the terminal emulator then set the following
resource:  "dtaction*localTerminal:  xterm".
.\"--- ------------------------------------------------------------
.\"--- Notes
.\"---
.SH NOTES
.PP
This program is not normally invoked directly by application
programs.  Normally an application program will link with the
Desktop Services Library (DtSvc) which will then invoke \fBdtexec\fP
as needed.
.PP
As mentioned above, an application program can set its
\fIwaitTime\fP and \fIDtexecPath\fP resources to affect the behavior
of DtSvc library invocations of \fIdtexec\fP.
