.TH dtfplist 1 "17 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtfplist \- a general purpose utility for printing the hierarchy of the front panel components
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtfplist
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtfplist
utility provides a textual view of what the front panel will look like without
restarting the window manager.
The
.Cm dtfplist
utility provides the ability to get an ASCII text version of the front panel
hierarchy.
This utility will print the hierarchy to standard out.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH RESOURCES
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
.SH "ASYCHRONOUS EVENTS"
None.
.SH STDOUT
The following is the format of hierachy to be written to standard out:
.Cs I

\fBPANEL\fP <panel name>
.sp
	\fBBOX\fP <box name>
.sp
		\fBCONTROL\fP <control name>
.sp
			\fBSUBPANEL\fP <subpanel name>
.sp
				\fBCONTROL\fP <control name>
.sp
					.
.sp
					.
.sp
					.
.sp
		\fBCONTROL\fP <control name>
.sp
			.
.sp
			.
.sp
			.
.sp
	\fBBOX\fP <box name>
.sp
		.
.sp
		.
.sp
		.
.sp
.Ce
.sp 1
The hierarchy that will be written to standard out, is the one that will be
used when the front panel is created during the invocation of
.BR dtwm .
.SH STDERR
Not used.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
None.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
If the
.I DTDATABASESEARCHPATH
is not specified, this utility will not generate
any ouput.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
This can be used to debug changes to the front panel configuration files.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtwm (1)


