.TH dthelpprint 1 "08 August 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dthelpprint \- print utility for DtHelpDialog and DtHelpQuickDialog widgets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dthelpprint \f1[\|\f2options\|\f1]
.yE
.br
Options controlling what to print:
.br
.ne 6v
.TS
tab(@);
lf3 lf2 lw(3.25i) .
\-helpType@type@T{
.na
type of Help data.
T}
\-helpType@type@T{
.na
type of Help data.
type = 0 (help volume), 1 (string), 2 (man page), 3 (help file)
T}
\-helpVolume@volume@T{
.na
full path of Help volume file.
T}
\-locationId@location@T{
.na
name of Help topic in the volume.
T}
\-allTopics@@T{
.na
print all topics, toc, & index.
T}
\-subTopics@@T{
.na
print topic locationId and all subtopics.
T}
\-oneTopic@@T{
.na
print topic locationId.
T}
\-toc@@T{
.na
print Help volume table of contents.
T}
\-index@@T{
.na
print Help volume index.
T}
\-frontMatter@@T{
.na
print Help volume front matter.
T}
\-manPage@manpagename@T{
.na
name of man page.
T}
\-stringData@string@T{
.na
Help text to print.
T}
\-helpFile@filename@T{
.na
file containing Help text.
T}
\-topicTitle@title@T{
.na
title string for Help text.
T}
.TE
.sp 2
\f1Options controlling how to print:\f1
.P
.ne 6v
.TS
tab(@);
lf3 lf2 lw(3.25i) .
\-printer@printername@T{
.na
printer to use.
T}
copies@number@T{
.na
number of copies to print.
T}
\-outputFile@filename@T{
.na
write output to this file.
T}
\-paperSize@size@T{
.na
format content to this paper size.
T}
\-paperSize@size@T{
.na
format content to this paper size.
size = {help_papersize_letter|help_papersize_legal|
help_papersize_executive|help_papersize_a4|
help_papersize_b5}
T}
\-display@displayname@T{
.na
display from which to get resources.
T}
\-name@name@T{
.na
program name used when getting resources.
T}
\-class@name@T{
.na
class name used when getting resources.
T}
\-xrm@resourcestring@T{
.na
additional resources.
T}
.TE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility is a private utility used by
.Fn DtHelpDialog 3
and
.Fn DtHelpQuickDialog 3
for printing Help information.
It is not a public utility, and
no effort to maintain backwards compatibility will be made across versions.
That said, it is sometimes useful to use
.Cm dthelpprint
directly
and to configure its operation.
.P
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility processes help topics and can send the output
to a printer or to a specified output file.
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility is an integral part of the CDE Help System.
Access to
.Cm dthelpprint
is provided by the
.Cm dthelpview 1
client's Print dialog, an application's Help window, or through a
utility line shell.
.P
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility can print plain text strings, plain text files, Unix man pages, and
CDE Help volumes.
CDE Help volumes are printed without any graphics, 
and there is no indication of missing graphics.
The standard 
.B man(1)
and
.B dthelpview(1)
search paths are used to find manual pages and CDE Help volumes; 
Help volumes and files may be specified with an absolute pathname.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility has two sets of utility line options.
The first set controls what
should be printed.
The second set controls how it should be printed.
All option names must be used exactly as given.
An alternative to
specifying options on the utility line is to specify them using
resources in an app-defaults file.
This is useful for changing
the default values from those given below.
See the \f3RESOURCE OVERVIEW\f1 heading in this manual page for more information.
.VL 6
Options controlling what to print:
.LI "\f3\-helpType\f1 \f2type\f1"
The type of Help data to print.
This is a numeric value, as follows:
0=help volume, 1=string, 2=man page, 3=help file.
The default value
is 0, a Help volume.
.LI "\f3\-helpVolume\f1 \f2volume\f1"
The name of the volume holding the topics to be printed.
If
.I volume
is unqualified, the standard 
.Cm dthelpview 1
search paths are used to locate the volume; these are also covered
in the \f3ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES\f1 heading in this manual page.
The volume may also be
specified relative to the current directory by beginning the volume
name with "\./" or "\../". 
This option is useful only in conjunction with a \f3\-helpType\f1 of 0 (zero).
.LI "\f3\-locationId\f1 \f2location\f1"
The starting topic for processing topics of a Help volume.
The
.I location
must be a text string used by the author to mark a location in the volume.
The default value is
.BR _hometopic ,
which is the top topic of a CDE Help volume.
This option is useful only in conjunction with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI \f3\-allTopics\f1
Instructs
.Cm dthelpprint
to print the entire help volume, including front matter, table of contents,
all topics, and an index.
This option is useful only in conjunction 
with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI \f3\-subTopics\f1
Instructs
.Cm dthelpprint
to print the topic specified by \f3\-locationId\f1 and all the subtopics
of that topic.
This option is useful only in conjunction with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI \f3\-oneTopic\f1
Instructs
.Cm dthelpprint
to print the topic specified by \f3-locationId\f1.
This option is useful only in conjunction with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI \f3\-toc\f1
Instructs
.Cm dthelpprint
to print the Table of Contents of the specified helpVolume.
This option is useful only in conjunction with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI \f3\-index\f1
Instructs
.Cm dthelpprint
to print the Index of the specified helpVolume.
This option is useful only in conjunction with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI \f3\-frontMatter\f1
Instructs
.Cm dthelpprint
to print the front matter of the specified helpVolume.
Front matter includes the volume title, abstract, and copyright information.
This option is useful only in conjunction with \f3\-helpVolume\f1.
.LI "\f3\-stringData\f1 \f2string\f1"
Specifies a string to print.
This option is useful only in conjunction with a \f3\-helpType\f1 of 1.
.LI "\f3\-manPage\f1 \f2manpagename\f1"
Specifies the name of the Unix man page to print.
This option is useful only in conjunction with a \f3\-helpType\f1 of 2.
.LI "\f3\-helpFile\f1 \f2filename\f1"
Specifies a file to print.
This option is useful only in conjunction with a \f3\-helpType\f1 of 3.
.LE
.VL 3
Options controlling how to print:
.LI "\f3\-printer\f1 \f2printername\f1"
Specifies which printer to use.
If this isn't specified as a
utility-line option or resource, the default value is taken
from the environment variable
.IR LPDEST .
.LI "\f3\-copies\f1 \f2number\f1"
Specifies how many copies to produce.
The default value is 1.
This option is only ignored when generating an output file.
.LI "\f3\-outputFile\f1 \f2filename\f1"
Specifies a file to hold the print-ready output.
If this option
is specified, no output is sent to the printer.
.LI "\f3\-paperSize\f1 \f2size\f1"
Specifies a size of paper to which the output should be formatted.
There are five valid values for \f2size\f1: \f3help_papersize_letter\f1,
\f3help_papersize_legal\f1, \f3help_papersize_executive\f1, 
\f3help_papersize_a4\f1, \f3help_papersize_b5\f1.
The default
value is \f3help_papersize_letter\f1.
.LI "\f3\-display\f1 \f2displayname\f1"
Specifies the X display used to retrieve resource values.
Typical format for \f2displayname\f1 is 
\f3hostname:display_number.screen_number\f1.
If no screen number is specified, the first screen (0)
is used.
See also
.Cm X 1
.LI "\f3\-name\f1 \f2name\f1"
Specifies the application name under which resources are to be obtained.
The default is
.BR dthelpprint .
The resource
\f3application.name\f1 way also be used to specify the name.
.LI "\f3\-class\f1 \f2classname\f1"
Specifies the application class name under which resources are to be obtained.
The default is
.Cm dthelpprint .
The resource
\f3application.class\f1 may also be used to specify the class name.
.LI "\f3\-xrm\f1 \f2resourcestring\f1"
Specifies an addition to the resource database used by this invocation of
the program.
.LE
.SH "RESOURCE OVERVIEW"
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utiity uses resources in addition to utility-line options to configure its 
operation.
There are many more resources available for this purpose than 
utility-line options.
To set a resource on the utility line, use
the 
.B \-xrm
option.
.P
The application class is
.Cm dthelpprint
unless specified otherwise with the
.B application.class
or
.B Application.Class
resources or the 
.B \-class
option.
The application instance name is the name used to run
the program (usually
.Cm dthelpprint )
unless specified otherwise with the
.B application.name
or
.B Application.Name
resource or the 
.B \-name
option.
In the following coverage of resource specifications,
the application's class name and instance name can be used
interchangably; however, if the same resource is specified more
than once, the instance-specific resource takes precedence over 
the class resource.
In addition, when a value can be specified
using either a resource or utility-line option, the utility-line
option value takes precedence.
.P
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility has three types of resources.
.VL 15
.LI "Help Content"
These resoures specify what to print.
Typically,
these values are specified using utility-line options instead
of resources.
.LI "Content Processing"
These resources specify in more detail the configuration of
how to print.
These resources include some values that can be specified
with utility-line options, but also many others.
.LI "Printer Configuration:"
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility allows printer-specific configurations to be specified.
The configuration used is controlled by the value of the
.B printer
resource or
.B \-printer
option.
.LE
.SH "HELP CONTENT RESOURCES"
These resources specify what to print.
The syntax for specifying the resources is
.VL 15
.LI "\f3Dthelpprint*\f2resource\f3:\f1resource value\f1"
.LE
.sp 1
For example, 
.B Dthelpprint*helpVolume: aVolume.sdl
is used to specify the name of the Help volume.
.HU "Basic Resource Set"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3     cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c) .
Name	Class	Type	Default 
_
locationId	LocationId	string	_HOMETOPIC
helpVolume	HelpVolume	string	NULL
manPage		ManPage		string	NULL
stringData	StringData	string	NULL
helpFile	HelpFile	string	NULL
topicTitle	TopicTitle	string	NULL
helpType	HelpType	string	NULL
.TE
.P
These Help-content resources are defined in
.Fn DtHelpDialog 3 .
The following content options are specific to
.Cm dthelpprint.
Setting the resource to any value makes it
.BR True .
.HU "Additional Resource Set"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3     cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c) .
Name	Class	Type	Default 
_
allTopics	AllTopics	string	NULL
subTopics	SubTopics	string	NULL
oneTopic	OneTopic	string	NULL
toc	Toc	string	NULL
index	Index	string	NULL
frontMatter	FrontMatter	string	NULL
.TE
.P
These Help-content resources have the same meaning as
the
.Cm dthelpprint
utility-line options of the same name.
.SH "HELP PROCESSING RESOURCES"
These resources specify how to print.
The syntax for specifying the resources is:
.VL 15
.LI "\f3Dthelpprint*\f2resource\f3:\f1resource value\f1"
.LE
.P
For example, 
.B Dthelpprint*printer: aPrinter
is used to specify the name of the printer.
.HU "Basic Resource Set"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3     cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c) .
Name	Class	Type	Default 
_
printer	Printer	string	NULL
copies	Copies	string	NULL
outputFile	OutputFile	string	NULL
paperSize	PaperSize	string	NULL
display	Display	string	NULL
.TE
.P
These Help-processing resources have the same meaning
as the
.Cm dthelpprint
utility-line options of the same name.
It is used to specify the name of the printer.
.HU "Additional Resource Set"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3     cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c) .
Name	Class	Type	Default 
_
evenTocHeader	EvenTocHeader	string	see below
oddTocHeader	OddTocHeader	string	see below
evenTocFooter	EvenTocFooter	string	see below
oddTocFooter	OddTocFooter	string	see below
evenBodyHeader	EvenBodyHeader	string	see below
oddBodyHeader	OddBodyHeader	string	see below
evenBodyFooter	EvenBodyFooter	string	see below
oddBodyFooter	OddBodyFooter	string	see below
evenIndexHeader	EvenIndexHeader	string	see below
oddIndexHeader	OddIndexHeader	string	see below
evenIndexFooter	EvenIndexFooter	string	see below
oddIndexFooter	OddIndexFooter	string	see below
echoCommand	EchoCommand	string	echo
echoArgs	EchoArgs	string	"%s"
foldCommand	FoldCommand	string	fold
foldArgs	FoldArgs	string	-w %d %s
prCommand	PrCommand	string	pr
prArgs	PrArgs	string	see below
prOffsetArg	PrOffsetArg	string	-o%d
manCommand	ManCommand	string	man
manArgs	ManArgs	string	%s
redirectCmdAndArgs	RedirectCmdAndArgs	string	> %s
lpCommand	LpCommand	string	lp
shCommand	ShCommand	string	see below
iconvCmdAndArgs	IconvCmdAndArgs	string	see below
.TE
.P
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3     cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c) .

evenTocHeader, oddTocHeader, evenTocFooter, oddTocFooter,
evenBodyHeader, oddBodyHeader, evenBodyFooter, oddBodyFooter,
evenIndexHeader, oddIndexHeader, evenIndexFooter, oddIndexFooter
.TE
.P
The values of these resources are used as the header and footer strings
only when printing Help volumes.
Header and footer strings are specified
separately for odd and even pages to support double sided printing.
The strings may contain symbolic names for dynamic values.  
.LE
.P
Dynamic values are updated each time the string is to be used.
Valid dynamic values are as follows:
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf1w(2c) .
Symbol	Value 
_
$LMARGIN	left margin blanks.
$TODAY	today's date.
$VOLDATE	date on the help volume file.
$VOLUME	volume name.
$VOLUMEFILL	filler for fixed sized 50 column volume name.
$TOPIC	section topic title.
$TOPICFILL	filler for fixed sized 50 column section topic title.
$PAGENUM	page number.
$PAGENUMFILL	filler for fixed sized 3 column page number.
$SECTNUM	section number or name.
$SECTNUMFILL	filler for fixed sized 8 column section number or name.
.TE
.P
The default values for the resources are as follows
(To improve understanding,
the blank spaces have been replaced with '.'.):
.VL 3 
.LI "evenTocHeader and oddTocHeader:"
$LMARGIN$VOLUME\\n\\n
.LI "evenTocFooter and oddTocFooter:"
\\n$LMARGIN......................................................$SECTNUM\n
.LI "evenBodyHeader and oddBodyHeader:"
$LMARGIN$VOLUME$VOLUMEFILL.............$PAGENUMFILLPage.$PAGENUM\n\n
.LI "evenBodyFooter and oddBodyFooter:"
\\n$LMARGIN$TOPIC$TOPICFILL.....$SECTNUMFILLSection.$SECTNUM\\n
.LI "evenIndexHeader and oddIndexHeader:"
$LMARGIN$VOLUME$VOLUMEFILL.............$PAGENUMFILLPage.$PAGENUM\\n\\n
.LI "evenIndexFooter and oddIndexFooter:"
\\n$LMARGIN..................................................................$SECTNUM\\n
.LE
.P
.VL 15
.LI echoCommand
The utility used to echo the
.B stringData
from stdin to stdout.
.LI echoArgs
The argument string to the
.BR echoCommand .
The string must use
.B printf
formatting and may reference this argument: STRING string.
.LI foldCommand
The utility used to fold a long string into a formatted
string with a maxiumum column width.
.LI foldArgs
The argument string to the
.BR foldCommand .
The string must use
.B printf
formatting and may referece these arguments: INT column width,
STRING filename.
.LI prCommand
The utility used to format a file in preparation for printing.
.LI prArgs
The argument string to the
.B prCommand.
The string must use
.B printf
formatting and may reference these arguments:
STRING job title, INT page height, STRING filename.
The default value is
.B "-h \"%s\" -f -l%d %s"
.LI prOffsetArg
Sometimes the prArgs is augmented with the option to offset the contents
by \f2n\f1 columns.
The value contains the offset argument.
The string must use
.B printf
formatting and may reference this argument: INT column-offset.
.LI manCommand
The utility used to recover a formatted Unix man page.
.LI manArgs
The argument string to the
.B manCommand.
The string must use
.B printf
formatting and may reference these arguments: STRING man-page-name.
.LI redirectCmdAndArgs
When stdout is to be redirected to a file, this utility and
arguments are used.
The string must use
.B printf
formatting and may reference these arguments:  STRING filename
.LI lpCommand
The utility is used to print a file.
The utility must accept
the standard
.Cm lp 1
utility-line arguments.
.LI shCommand
The shell script used by
.B dthelpprint
to actally invoke the
.B lpCommand
on the target file.
The default value is
.B /usr/dt/bin/dthelpprint.sh.
.LI iconvCmdAndArgs
The utility is used to translate a file from one character set to
another.
The argument string must use
.B printf
formatting and may reference these arguments:
STRING from-charset, STRING to-charset, STRING source-file, STRING dest-file.
The default value is
.B "iconv -f %s -t %s %s > %s"
.LE
.SH "PRINTER CONFIGURATION RESOURCES"
These resources specify printer configuration.
This includes
a default configuration as well as printer-specific configurations.
The syntax for specifying the resources is
.VL 3 
.LI "\f3Dthelpprint*printer.\f2resource\f3:\f1resource value\f1"
.LI "\f3Dthelpprint*printer.\f2printerName.resource\f3:\f1resource value\f1"
.LE
.P
For example, 
.VL 3 
.LI "Dthelpprint*printer.paperSize: help_papersize_legal"
.LI "Dthelpprint*printer.laser-c4.paperSize: help_papersize_executive"
.LE
set the default paper size to legal and the paper size on the
printer named "laser-c4" to executive.
.HU "Basic Resource Set"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3     cf3     cf3     cf3
lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c)        lf3w(2c) .
Name	Class	Type	Default 
_
paperSize	PaperSize	String	help_papersize_letter
colsWidth	ColsWidth	Int	0
rowsHeight	RowsHeight	Int	0
colsLeftMargin	ColsLeftMargin	Int	10
colsRightMargin	ColsRightMargin	Int	10
rowsTopMargin	RowsTopMargin	Int	6
rowsBottomMargin	RowsBottomMargin	Int	6
.TE
.P
These resources are used to specify the printer configuration,
specifically with respect to the paper used for printing.
Paper size can be specified either by using the
.B paperSize
resource or by setting an explicit size with the
.B colsWidth
and
.B rowsHeight
resources.
The margin values specify the amount of white space
retained around the page.
.VL 15
.LI paperSize
This resource can be used to set the paper size to predefined dimensions.
Valid values are
.B help_papersize_letter,
(8.5 x 11 in; 69 rows x 91 cols)
.B help_papersize_legal,
(8.5 x 14 in; 88 rows x 91 cols)
.B help_papersize_executive,
(7.25 x 10.5 in, 66 rows x 77 cols)
.B help_papersize_a4,
(210 x 297 mm, 73 rows x 88 cols) and
.B help_papersize_b5
(182 x 257 mm, 63 rows x 76 cols).
If these dimensions are insufficient, the 
.B colsWidth
and
.B rowsHeight
resources can be used to provide explicit dimensions.
All dimensions
are given in columns and rows of text in the default printer font.
.LI colsWidth
Width of the paper in columns of characters in the default printer font.
The value may not be 0 (zero).
.LI rowsHeight
Height of the paper in rows of text in the default printer font.
The value may not be 0 (zero).
.LI colsLeftMargin
Width of the left margin in columns of characters in the default printer font.
.LI colsRightMargin
Width of the right margin in columns of characters in the default printer font.
.LI rowsTopMargin
Height of the top margin in rows of text in the default printer font.
.LI rowsBottomMargin
Height of the bottom margin in rows of text in the default printer font.
.LE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The CDE Help system uses two environment variables for locating 
Help volumes files within the desktop environment:
.VL 15
.LI \f2DTHELPSEARCHPATH\f1
.I System
search path environment variable for locating
Help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.LI \f2DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH\f1
.I Users
search path environment variable for locating user
specific Help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.LE
.P
Refer to
.Fn DtHelpDialog 3
or
.Fn DtHelpQuickDialog 3
for information of setting the
.I DTHELP
environment variables.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The following are input files and resource databases are merged by
.Cm dthelpprint
to construct the complete resource database used by the program.
Resource
collisions are resolved by having the last value take precedence.
.VL 15
.LI \f3/usr/dt/app-defaults/C/Dthelpprint\f1
.LI \f3/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Dthelpprint\f1
.LI \f3$HOME/Dthelpprint\f1
.LI "\f1display resources or \f3$HOME/.Xdefaults\f1"
.LI "\f1screen resources\f1"
.LI "\f1$XENVIRONMENT or \f3$HOME/.Xdefaults\-<hostname>\f1"
.LI "\f1utility\-line resources\f1"
.LE
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
The
.Cm dthelpprint
utility
always generates an output file, either for sending
to the printer or to place in a user-specified file.
.VL 15
.LI "\f3$HOME/.dt/tmp/phlp<process id>_<cnt>.txt\f1"
These are the temporary files generated by the
.Cm dthelpprint
utility.
These files are placed under the
user's directory so that remote systems can reach the file
via NFS.
.LI "\f3$PWD/db.dthelpprint\f1"
This file is generated in the current directory when the
.B debugHelpPrint
resource is defined.
The file constains the complete set of
resources used by
.Cm dthelpprint
to configure its operation.
.LE
.HU "Warning Messages"
.VL 15
.LI "\f3Warning: Illegal or missing paper size. help_papersize_letter used.\f1"
Indicates an invalid or missing value of the
.B paperSize
resource or 
.B \-paperSize
option.
Specify the option on the utility line or set a 
default resource value.
.LI "\f3Warning: Missing paper size and height and/or width. help_papersize_letter used.\f1"
Indicates that the
.B printer.colsWidth
or
.B printer.rowsHeight
resource was used to override the
.B paperSize
resource and at least one is set to 0 (zero) or has an invalid value.
.LI "\f3Warning: Unable to open display <display>\f1"
Indicates that the display specified by the 
.B display
resource or
.B \-display
option could not be opened.
This means that the display's resources cannot be used to configure
.Cm dthelpprint .
.LE
.HU "Error Messages"
.VL 15
.LI "\f3Error: helpType is topic, but no helpVolume specified.\f1"
Indicates that the 
.B helpType 
resource or 
.B \-helpType
option was 0 (zero) or unspecified and defaulted to 0 (zero) and no
helpVolume was specified.
.LI "\f3Error: unable to locate help volume <volume>\f1"
Indicates that the Help volume could not be found.
This occurs when the volume isn't correctly specified by a full
or relative path or doesn't exist in any directory listed
by the DtHelp environment variables.
.LI "\f3Error: problem processing help volume <volume>\f1"
A problem occurred while processing some part of the Help volume.
.LI "\f3Error: memory allocation failed\f1"
The program was unable to allocate necessary memory.
.LI "\f3Error: unable to get topic information:volume <vol>, locationId <loc>\f1"
Information about the specified location in the specified volume
was unavailable or an error occurred while retrieving it from the volume.
.LI "\f3Error: helpType is string, but no stringData specified.\f1"
The
.B helpType 
resource or
.B \-helpType
option is 1 (string) but no
.B stringData
resource or
.B \-stringData
option was specified.
.LI "\f3Error: helpType is dynamic string, but no stringData specified.\f1"
The
.B helpType 
resource or
.B \-helpType
option is 1 (dynamic string) but no
.B stringData
resource or
.B -stringData
option was specified.
.LI "\f3Error: helpType is man page, but no manPage specified.\f1"
The
.B helpType 
resource or
.B \-helpType
option is 2 (manual page) but no
.B manPage
resource or
.B \-manPage
option was specified. 
.LI "\f3Error: helpType is file, but no helpFile specified.\f1"
The
.B helpType 
resource or
.B \-helpType
option is 3 (plain text file) but no
.B helpFile
resource or
.B \-helpFile
option was specified.  
.LI "\f3Error: Illegal helpType <number>.\f1"
The
.B helpType 
resource or
.B \-helpType
option is not in the range 0 to 3.
.LI "\f3Error: unable to allocate memory for temporary file\f1"
The memory needed to create the temporary file name couldn't be allocated.
.LI "\f3Error: unable to open temporary file\f1"
The temporary file couldn't be opened for writing.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.VL
.LI "\f3dthelpprint \-helpVolume Help4Help \-allTopics \-outputFile Help4Help.asc"
.LI "dthelpprint \-helpVolume Help4Help \-toc \-index \-printer hplj3"
.LI "dthelpprint \-helpType 1 \-stringData 'test string' \-printer hplj3"
.LI "dthelpprint \-helpType 2 \-manPage grep \-outputFile grep.man"
.LI "dthelpprint \-helpType 3 \-helpFile aFile \-printer hplj3\f1"
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Fn DtHelpDialog 3,
.Fn DtHelpQuickDialog 1,
.Fn dthelpview 1,
.Fn man 1,
.BR "\f2CDE Help System Author's and Programmer's Guide\f1."


