.\" **
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **
.TH dthelpview 1 "11 Jan 1994"
.BH "11 Jan 1994"
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
dthelpview \- Cde online help viewer.
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- SYNOPSIS 
.\"--- This section is a syntax diagram.  
.\"---
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dthelpview
[ \fIoptions\fP ]
.LP
.nf
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"---
.\"--- DESCRIPTION 
.\"--- This section tells concisely what the command does 
.\"---
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdthelpview\fP supports viewing of Cde online help volume(s), ASCII files,
or man pages.
.I dthelpview
is an integral part of the Cde application help
environment.  Its functionality and user interface is almost completely that 
of the standard Cde general help and quick help dialog widgets.  
See \fIDtCreateHelpDialog(3)\fP and \fIDtCreateQuickHelpDialog(3).\fP 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-helpVolume " volume"
Specifies the name of the <filename>.sdl file you want to 
view. A path is not required unless the volume is not in the 
current directory or the volume has not been registered.
If \fBlocationId\fP is not set, the \fI_HOMETOPIC\fR will be be used.
.TP
.BI \-locationId " location_id"
Specifies the location ID, representing the desired help topic to be viewed.
If you do not specify an ID, Helpview uses \fI_HOMETOPIC\fR by default.
.TP
.BI \-file " file"
Specifies a particular ASCII text file to be displayed.
.TP
.BI \-manPage " man_page"
Specifies a particular man page to be displayed.
.TP
.BI \-man
Displays a dialog that prompts for a man page to view, 
then displays the requested man page.
.RE
.SH RESOURCES
For information on help dialog widget resources refer to
\fBDtCreateHelpDialog(3)\fP or \fBDtCreateQuickHelpDialog(3)\fP.
.SS "dthelpview specific resources set in the Dthelpview app-defaults file"
.PD 0
.TP 30
Dthelpview*manBox*rows: 
32
.TP
Dthelpview*manBox*columns:
80
.TP
Dthelpview*fileBox*rows:
32
.TP
Dthelpview*fileBox*columns:  
80
.TP
Dthelpview*man_text.columns:
20
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 10
dthelpview -helpVolume dtintro.sdl -locationId _hometopic
Displays the topic associated with _hometopic in the help 
volume dtintor.sdl.
.TP 10
dthelpview -file /etc/checklist
Displays the file /etc/checklist in a general help dialog
.TP 10
dthelpview -man grep
Displays the grep man page in a quick help dialog
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The Cde help system utilizes two environment variables for locating 
help volumes and family files within the desktop environment:
.TP 10
.SM \fBDTHELPSEARCHPATH\fP
\fISystem\fP search path environment variable for locating
help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.TP 10
.SM \fBDTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH\fP
\fIUsers\fP search path environment variable for locating user
specific help volumes on local and/or remote nfs mounted systems.
.P
.sp 1
The environment variables  contain colon-separated lists of directory paths.
Each directory path can contain both environment variable names as well as
special field descriptors that are expanded at runtime via each help component
that uses these environment variables.
.P
Field descriptors consist of a
.B %
followed by a single character.
Field descriptors and their substitution values are:
.RS
.TP 8
.B %H
This value is replaced with the current volume or family name being searched 
for.
.PD 0
.TP
.B %L
Replaced with the current value of the $LANG environment variable.
.SM .
.TP
.B %%
Replaced with a single
.BR % .
.PD
.RE
.sp1
The default value for DTHELPUSERSEARCH path is: NULL.
.sp1
If the DTHELPUSERSEARCH is set, its searched for the requested volume. If
the volume is not found, the DTHELPSEARCHPATH value is searched.
.P
The default value for DTHELPSEARCHPATH path is:
.ta li
\fB
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv
.fi
\fP
.sp 1
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
Dthelpview
App-defaults file used by this client. 
.sp1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtsearchpath (1),
.BR dtsdlfile (4),
.BR "Cde Help System Author's and Programmer's Guide"








