'\" t
.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.\"--- 
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"    (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\"--- 
.TH dthello 1X "19 Feb. 1995"
.BH "19 Feb. 1995""
.SH NAME
dthello - CDE login transitional greeting
.SH SYNOPSIS
dthello [
.BI \-display " <display>"
] [
.BI \-fground " <color>"
]
.P 
[
.BI \-bground " <color>"
] [
.BI \-font " <fontname>"
] 
.P
[
.BI \-string " <message>"
] [
.BI \-file " <filename>"
] 
.P
[
.BI \-timeout " <seconds>"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The dthello client provides transition visuals from the end of login
to the start of the window manager in the user's session.  The current
CDE version information will also be displayed here on the default
background of dthello, directly below the Solaris(TM) logo.

.P
Upon invocation, the dthello client will create an override-redirect
window the size ofthe screen and draw a specified message on it. At
the same time, a 1x1 window is created that will be picked up by the
window manager. When the window manager reparents the little window
(an indication that the window manager has started), this program
exits.
.P
The message may be specified on the command line, or in a text file.
.SH OPTIONS
NOTE: The dthello client is designed to be started by the system's 
/usr/dt/bin/Xsession file and is not intended to be started directly
by users.  Its start options can be modified by updating the value
of the dtstart_hello[0] variable used in the Xsession script to 
start dthello.  Editing of Xsession file is not required here.  This
variable can be set on a per user basis by adding it to a user's
$HOME/.dtprofile.  Or it can be set by adding a custom script file
of any name to the system's /usr/dt/config/Xsession.d directory.
An example line to add the systems message of the day, would be:

dtstart_hello[0]="/usr/dt/bin/dthello -file /etc/motd &"

.sp .5
.BI \-display " display"
Display id.
.sp .5
.BI \-fground " color" 
Foreground color, includes the color of message text.
.sp .5
.BI \-bground " color" 
Background color.  If specified will replace the default Solaris(TM) background
with the specified solid color.  Can be useful if planning to display
large amounts of text here during startup.
.sp .5
.BI \-font " fontname" 
Font.
.sp .5
.BI \-string " message" 
String to be displayed in window.
.sp .5
.BI \-file " filename" 
Text file name whose contents will be displayed in window. This option
may be specified up to five times.
.sp .5
.BI \-timeout " seconds" 
Number of seconds before giving up on the window manager and
terminating.
.SH RETURN VALUE
 Exit values are:
.IP "\f30\fP" 1.5i
Successful completion.
.IP "\f3>0\fP" 1.5i
Error condition occured.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp .5
.B dthello -string "Welcome to the Deskop"
Transition window will contain this message.
.SH RESOURCES
NOTE: Resources should be prefaced with the string "Dthello*" when
specified. Resources should be specified in the Dthello app-defaults
file.
.TS
center;
cf3 cf3 cf3 cf3
l l l l .

Name	Class	Value Type	Default
_
vbackground	Vbackground	Pixel	dynamic
vforeground	Vforeground	Pixel	dynamic
vfont	Vfont	FontList	dynamic
string	String	String	.........
file	File	String	NULL
timeout	Timeout	Integer	240
.TE
.PP
.SS vbackground
Specifes the background color for the transition message.
If specified, will replace the default Solaris(TM) background
with the specified solid color.  Can be useful if planning to display
large amounts of text here during startup.
.sp .5
.SS vforeground
Specifes the foreground color for the transition message.
.sp .5
.SS vfont
Specifes the font to use for the transition message.
.sp .5
.SS string
Specifes the text to use in the transition message. 
.sp .5
.SS file
Specifies a file whose contents is to be displayed in addition to the
transition message.  Only one file may be specified.
.sp .5
.SS timeout
Number of seconds before giving up on the window manager and
terminating.
