.TH dthelp_htag2 1 "08 August 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dthelp_htag2 \- second pass for parse of HelpTag source
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
   dthelp_htag2  -[cdhot] file [outfile]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dthelp_htag2
executable
is invoked by
.Cm dthelptag 1
as the second
pass of translating HelpTag markup into SDL.
.sp 1
The
.Cm dthelp_htag2
executable accepts the output of the first pass of
dthelptag (either
.Cm dthelp_htag1 1
or
.Cm dthelp_ctag1 1)
and computes the byte
offsets of virtual pages to be used in the runtime display of the SDL
volume.
.sp 1
If only one file is specified on the command line, the output file
will overwrite the input file.
If two files are specified, the output
will be placed in the second.
.sp 1
If the input file has no .sdl extension, one will be added.
If a
second file name is specified for output, it will be used without
modification.
.sp 1
The options to
.Cm dthelp_ctag2
are:
.VL 15
.LI \-c:
compress the SDL document on a per virtual page basis \- if
the document is already compressed, this command will result
in no change to the document.
.LI \-d:
decompress an SDL document \- if the document is already
compressed, this command will result in no change to the
document; however, the byte offsets of virtual pages will be
recomputed.
.LI \-h:
print a help message and exit.
.LI \-o:
perform peephole optimization of the SDL document.
In
particular, \f3<FORM>\f1 elements containing only a single \f3<BLOCK>\f1 or
\f3<FORM>\f1 without a user supplied identifier are replaced by that
single \f3<BLOCK>\f1 or \f3<FORM>\f1 with the identifier of the original
(outer) \f3<FORM>\f1.
.LI \-t:
eliminate any \f3<TOSS>\f1 sub-elements that are not used in this SDL
document.
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dthelptag 1,
.Cm dthelp_htag1 1,
.Cm dthelp_ctag1 1,
.BR dtsdldtd (4).


