\" **
.\" **
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" ** (c) Copyright 1994 Unix Systems Labs, Inc., a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **
.TH dthelptag 1 "12 May 1994"
.BH "12 May 1994"
.SH NAME
dthelptag \- compiles CDE Help source documents into run-time help volumes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dthelptag
.RI [ \|options\| ]
.I file
.RI [ \|parser\-options\| ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdthelptag\fP is the CDE Help System compiler for translating
HelpTag source markup into the online distribution format suitable for
run time display.  See the \fICde Help System Authors and Programmers
Guide\fP for a description of the HelpTag markup language.
See \fIdthelpview(1)\fP for more information on
previewing compiled help volume(s).
.P
The
.I dthelptag
command accepts a single file name as an argument.  If the file name
contains a period ("."), any characters after the last period are
considered to be the extension.  The
.I dthelptag
command will remove all characters after the last period and use the
resulting name as the base name for all intermediate files and for the
final output files.  If the
.IR file
argument has no periods,
.I dthelptag
uses the argument as the base name for intermediate and output files
and assumes an extension of \fB.htg\fP, \fB.ctg\fP or \fB.sdl\fP
for the input file.  The
.B .ctg
extension is assumed when the
.B \-strict
option described below is used.  The
.B .sdl
extension is assumed when the
.B \-compress
or
.B \-decompress
options described below are used.
.P
Several options to 
.I dthelptag
may precede the file name.  Several arguments directing the
parsing phase of the
.I dthelptag
process may follow the file name.
.P
The output file is:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
.IR file .sdl
\- the compiled help volume file.
.RE
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
The
.I dthelptag
command is actually a driver program that executes two phases of the
compilation process.  The first phase translates the source markup
into the distribution format.  The second phase enhances the
distribution file by precomputing information such as a list of
identifiers in the file and their locations.  These precomputations,
along with several optimizations, enable rapid run-time display of
the file.  The second phase of the translation process also compresses
the distribution file to reduce file system space required to store
the file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-verbose
.br
The 
.B \-verbose
option will cause
.I dthelptag
to generate and display parser messages during processing.
.TP
.B \-strict
.br
The   
.B \-strict
option causes
.I dthelptag
to accept a subset of the HelpTag language which is strictly compliant
to canonical SGML.  See \fICde Help System Authors and Programmers
Guide\fP.  When this option is given, the default extension of the
input file becomes \fB.ctg\fP.
.TP
.B \-nooptimize
.br
The
.B \-nooptimize
option eliminates certain optimizations that normally take place
during translation of HelpTag markup to the run-time format.  Using
this option will speed the translation process.
.TP
.B \-clean
.br
The
.B \-clean
option causes
.I dthelptag
to simply remove any intermediate files from the current directory.
No translation takes place.
.TP
.B \-debug
.br
The
.B \-debug
option causes
.I dthelptag
to leave all intermediate files in the current directory. The
.B \-debug
option also blocks the compression step of
.I dthelptag
leaving the resulting
.B .sdl
output file in a human readable form.
.TP
.B \-files
.br
The
.B \-files
option causes a list of files referenced in the translation process to
be emitted to the standard output.  No translation takes place.
.TP
.B \-help
.br
The
.B \-help
option causes
.I dthelptag
to emit a synopsis of the
.I dthelptag
command line and a list of options to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-decompress
.br
The
.B \-decompress
option causes
.I dthelptag
to decompress a previously created
.B .sdl
file.
When this option is specified, the default input extension is \fB.sdl\fP.
.TP
.B \-compress
.br
The
.B \-compress
option causes
.I dthelptag
to compress a
.B .sdl
file that either was created by translating a
.B .htg
or
.B .ctg
file using the
.B \-debug
option
or was previously decompressed using the
.B \-decompress
option.
When this option is specified, the default input extension is \fB.sdl\fP.
.SS "Parser Options"
.br
Any
.IR "parser options"
follow the
.IR file
argument on the command line and take the form
.B option=value
for those options taking a parameter and simply
.B option
for those options not taking a parameter.
Parser options may also be set in the environment variable DTTAGOPT, in a
.B helptag.opt
file or in a file named
.IR file .opt
in the current directory.
The
.B helptag.opt
file may reside in the current directory or in the directory in which
.I dthelptag
is placed.
.P
The order of precedence of the option settings is:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
The file
.B helptag.opt
in the dthelptag installation directory.  This
directory defaults to
.B /usr/dt/bin.
.TP
\(bu
The environment variable DTTAGOPT
.TP
\(bu
The file
.B helptag.opt
in the current directory.
.TP
\(bu
The file
.IR file .opt
in the current directory.
.TP
\(bu
The command line.
.RE
.P
Parser options set later in the list will override options set earlier.
.P
The parser options supported by
.I dthelptag
are:
.TP
.B onerror=go
.br
Cause errors to be non-fatal.  That is, parsing will continue and later
phases of the
.I dthelptag
process will be run even if syntax errors were encountered.
.TP
.B onerror=stop
.br
This is the default setting of the
.B onerror=
option.  It causes the
.I dthelptag
process to stop upon completion of the parser phase if syntax errors were
encountered during the parse.
.TP
.B charset=name
.br
The default character set used by the
help system is ISO8859-1.  A
different character set may be specified, e.g.,
.B name,
using the
.B charset=
option.  The character set may also be set in the
.B helplang.ent 
file described in the
.IR "Cde Help System Authors and Programmers Guide".
.TP
.B search=path
.br
Specifies one or more directory
.B path(s)
to be searched when executing
.B dthelptag.
Both dthelptag input files and/or additional graphics or entity declaration 
files referenced within the HelpTag markup can be made accessible via setting
this option.  The
.B search=
option may be specified more that once and the list of directories to
search is accumulated.
.TP
.B clearsearch
.br
Clears the list of directories searched for file and
image entities.
.TP
.B memo
.br
The
.B memo
option causes authors' comments to be included in the output.
.TP
.B nomemo
Specifies the inverse of the
.B memo
option.  Both
.B memo
and
.B nomemo
may be specified, but the last entry will override any previous setting.
.TP
.B shortfiles
.br
Neither the
.B shortfiles
.IR "parser-option"
nor any of its synonyms should be used.  Rather, the
.B \-shortfiles
option should be given as an
.IR option
to
.I dthelptag.
The
.I dthelptag
driver needs to know whether the user has requested short file names since
.I dthelptag
must know the names of the intermediate files.
.TP
.B shortfile
This is a synonym for
.B shortfiles.
.TP
.B short
This is a synonym for
.B shortfiles.
.TP
.B longfiles
.br
This option and any of its synonyms should not be used for the same
reason that the
.B shortfiles
option should not be used.
.TP
.B " "
Long, untruncated, file names are the default.
.TP
.B longfile
This is a synonym for
.B longfiles.
.TP
.B long
This is a synonym for
.B longfiles.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 10
.C dthelptag -clean myFile.htg
Remove all files previously generated by processing a source file
of myFile.htg
.TP 10
.C dthelptag myFile.htg onerror=go
process the file myFile.htg, not stopping even if their are syntax errors
.TP 10
.C dthelptag myFile.htg
Process the file myFile.htg
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SM LANG
determines the language in which the input
.IR file
is interpreted.  The
.SM LANG
environment variable can be overridden in the
.B helplang.ent
file described in the
.IR "Cde Help System Authors and Programmers Guide".
.PP
.SM DTTAGOPT
may be used to set parser options as described earlier.
.SS International Code Set Support
Single- and multi-byte character code sets are supported.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
file.htg
default input file
.TP
file.ctg
default input file when the
.B \-strict
option has been specified
.TP
file.sdl
runtime help volume
.TP
file.err
run log and error listing
.TP
file.st
status file and log
.TP
helplang.ent
character set information and localizable replacement text
.TP
helptag.opt
option file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dthelpview (1),
.BR dtsdlfile (4),
.BR "Cde Help System Authors and Programmers Guide"
