.TH dthelpview 1 "11 Jan 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dthelpview \- view a CDE help volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dthelpview \f1[ \f2options\f1 ]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dthelpview
utility supports the viewing of CDE online Help volumes, ASCII files
or manual pages.
The
.Cm dthelpview
utility is an integral part of the CDE application Help
environment.
The
.Cm dthelpview
utility's functionality and user interface is almost completely that 
of the standard CDE general Help and quick Help dialog widgets.
(See
.Fn DtCreateHelpDialog 3
and
.Fn DtCreateHelpQuickDialog 3.)
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI "\f3\-helpVolume\f1 \f2volume\f1"
Specifies the name of the \f3<filename>.sdl\f1 file you want to 
view.
If \f3locationId\f1 is not set, the default \f3_HOMETOPIC\f1 ID is used.
If the requested volume is in the current working directory, or the Help volume
has been properly registered, no path is required.
.LI "\f3\-locationId\f1 \f2location_id\f1"
Specifies the location ID representing the desired Help topic to be viewed.
By default, Helpview uses \f3_HOMETOPIC\f1 if an ID is not specified.
.LI "\f3\-file\f1 \f2file\f1"
Specifies a particular ASCII text file to be displayed.
.LI "\f3\-manPage \f2man_page\f1"
Specifies a particular man page to be displayed.
.LI \f3\-man\f1
Displays a dialog that prompts for a man page to view, 
then displays the requested man page.
.LE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The CDE Help system uses two environment variables for locating 
Help volumes and Family files within the desktop environment:
.VL 15
.LI \f2DTHELPSEARCHPATH\f1
\f2System\f1 search path environment variable for locating
Help volumes on local and remote nfs mounted systems.
.LI \f2DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH\f1
\f2Users\f1 search path environment variable for locating user
specific Help volumes on local and remote nfs mounted systems.
.LE
.P
The environment variables contain colon-separated lists of directory paths.
Each directory path can contain both environment variable names as well as
special field descriptors that are expanded at runtime via each Help component
that uses these environment variables.
.P
Field descriptors consist of a \f3%\f1
followed by a single character.
Field descriptors and their substitution values are:
.VL 15
.LI \f3%H\f1
This value is replaced with the current volume name being searched 
for.
.LI \f3%L\f1
Replaced with the current value of the
.I LANG
environment variable.
.LI \f3%%\f1
Replaced with a single \f3%\f1.
.LE
.P
The default value for
.I DTHELPUSERSEARCHPATH
is:
.P
\f3
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H.sdl:
.br 
$HOME/.dt/help/$DTUSERSESSION/%H.hv:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H:
.br
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.sdl:
.br 
$HOME/.dt/help/%H.hv
.P
The
.I DTHELPUSERSEARCH
is first searched for the requested volume.
If
the volume is not found, the
.I DTHELPSEARCHPATH
value is searched.
.P
The default value for \f2DTHELPSEARCHPATH\f1 path is:
.br
\f3
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl:
.br
/etc/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.sdl:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/%L/%H.hv:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.sdl:
.br
/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/%H.hv
.P
\f1
.SH RESOURCES
For information on Help dialog widget resources, refer to
.Fn DtCreateHelpDialog 3
or
.Fn DtCreateQuickHelpDialog 3.
.P
The
.Cm dthelpview
utility's specific resources set in the Dthelpview app-defaults file are:
.VL
.LI "Dthelpview*manBox*rows: 32"
.LI "Dthelpview*manBox*columns: 80"
.LI "Dthelpview*fileBox*rows: 32"
.LI "Dthelpview*fileBox*columns: 80"
.LI "Dthelpview*man_text.columns: 20"
.LE
.SH FILE
Following files are used in conjunction with the
.Cm dthelpview 
application:
.br
.VL 15
.LI "\f3Dthelpview\f1"
App-defaults file used by
.Cm dthelpview . 
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.VL 15
.LI "dthelpview \-helpVolume dtintro.sdl \-locationId _hometopic"
Displays the topic associated with _hometopic in the Help 
volume dtintor.sdl.
.LI "dthelpview \-file /etc/checklist"
Displays the file /etc/checklist in a general Help dialog
.LI "dthelpview \-man grep"
Displays the grep man page in a quick Help dialog
.LE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtsearchpath 1,
\f2CDE Help System Author's and Programmer's Guide\f1.
