.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.\"(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"(c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"(c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.TH DTMAIL 1X "" "" "" ""
.ds ]W CDE 1.1 (12/96)
.na
.SH NAME
dtmail \- the CDE Mailer
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dtmail
[
.B \-ch
]
[
.B \-f
.I [server:][mailfile]
]
[
.B \-l
.I deadletter
]
[
.B \-a
.I file1
.B ...
.I fileN
]
[
.B \-T
.I address
]
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
dtmail is the mail user agent (MUA) for CDE.  It provides an intuitive,
easy-to-use GUI for reading, sending, and managing electronic mail.
dtmail supports both MIME and Sun Mail Tool message formats for reading and
sending messages.  In addition to local and NFS mailboxes, it also supports
the use of IMAP4 for accessing remote mailboxes.  dtmail
provides a mail-pervasive desktop environment by supporting the
.B Mail(4)
and
.B Display(4)
Media Exchange messages.  Other applications can
compose, send, and display electronic mail messages using the ToolTalk API
and these Media Exchange messages.
.P
.sp 1
.SH OPTIONS
.br
.TP
.BI \-a " file1 "  \... " fileN"
Open a Compose window with
.I file1
through
.I fileN
as attachments.
.TP
.BI \-c 
Open a new Compose window.
.TP
.BI \-f " [server:][filename]"
Specify the mail file to be loaded in at start up time.
Ordinarily, the mail file pointed to by the environment variable
.B MAIL
is read in as the user's inbox.  Use of the 
.B \-f
option overrides the
use of the
.B MAIL
variable.  The optional server argument specifies the host
name of an IMAP server to use.  If only
.I server:
is specified, the Inbox on
that IMAP server is opened (if it exists).
.TP
.BI \-h
Display help for command-line options.
.TP
.BI \-l " deadletter"
Open a Compose window with the
.I deadletter
file loaded.
.TP
.BI -T " address "
Open a Compose window with
.I address
in the To field.
.sp 1
.SH FEATURES
.SS IMAP4
dtmail supports the use of IMAP4 for accessing remote mailboxes.  The use
of this feature requires that an IMAP4 server be installed on the machine
that manages your mailboxes.  You can configure the IMAP-related items in the
Basic and Move Menu Setup dialog boxes opened from the Options menu.
.SS Search
dtmail provides a search facility that allows you to create your own complex
queries as well as providing a GUI for simple searches.  dtmail's advanced
search facility supports the following case-insensitive keywords:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 3
.LI \(bu
Header-related keywords: 
.B to, from, subject, cc, bcc, text,
.B body, header
.LI \(bu
Date-related keywords: 
.B before, since, on, during,
.B sentsince, sentbefore, senton, today, yesterday, lastweek,
.B thismonth, lastmonth, january ... december,
.B sunday ... saturday
.LI \(bu
Message State-related keywords: 
.B read, unread, new, old, deleted, undeleted,
.B recent, flagged, unflagged, answered,
.B unanswered, keyword, unkeyword, draft,
.B undraft, all, larger, smaller
(The meaning of some keywords is not known.  They are simply included here for
the sake of completeness.)
.LI \(bu
Logic operators: 
.B and, or, ~ (not), (, )
.RE
.PP
The following are examples of advanced searches:
.PP
.RS 3
\-
.B from
kelly@tiger
.B and subject
"hi there"
.B and during lastweek

\-
.B (to
gary
.B or to
tigerteam
.B ) and ~ (to
boss@tiger
.B or cc
boss@tiger
.B )
.PP
Nested parentheses are not allowed.
.RE
.PP
You can save your searches for use as a view via the Search dialog box.
.SS Signals
.PP
SIGUSR1 - Sending this signal to dtmail causes all mailboxes to
be closed.  dtmail will exit if there are no compose 
windows opened. This signal is also used by the
Solstice Internet Mail Server to inform a mail client 
to release control of the mailbox.
.PP
SIGUSR2 - Sending this signal to dtmail causes all non-Inbox
mailboxes to be closed.  This signal is also used by the
Solstice Internet Mail Server to inform a mail client 
to release control of a non-Inbox mailbox.
.SS Toolbar
You can customize the toolbar on the main mailbox window in several ways:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 3
.LI \(bu
add or remove commands
.LI \(bu
label buttons using either text or icon images
.PP
Configuring the toolbar is done via the Toolbar dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.SS ToolTalk
dtmail's ToolTalk interface enables other applications to compose,
send, and display email.  dtmail supports the
.B Mail(4)
and
.B Display(4)
Media Exchange messages.  Other applications can use these two types of requests to:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 3
.LI \(bu
Display a single message or a collection of messages by using a
.B Tttk_op
value of
.B TTME_DISPLAY
and a media type of 
.B RFC_822_MESSAGE.
.LI \(bu
Open a Compose window with the supplied message data loaded into the
appropriate fields.  This is done by using a
.B Tttk_op
value of
.B TTME_MAIL_EDIT
and a media type of
.B RFC_822_MESSAGE.
.LI \(bu
Open a Compose window with the supplied data loaded as an attachment.
This is done by using a
.B Tttk_op
value of
.B TTME_MAIL_EDIT
and a media type of
.B MAIL_TYPE.
.LI \(bu
Open a new Compose window. This is done by using a
.B Tttk_op
value of
.B TTME_MAIL_COMPOSE
and a media type of
.B RFC_822_MESSAGE.
.LI \(bu
Send a message without using the GUI.  This is done by using a
.B Tttk_op
value of
.B TTME_MAIL
and a media type of
.B RFC_822_MESSAGE.
.PP
See the man page for
.B ttmedia_load(3),
.B Mail(4),
and
.B Display(4)
for more information on how to use ToolTalk and the Media Exchange requests.
.SS Vacation
You use the vacation facility to create a message that is automatically
sent to anyone who sends you email during a period of time that you 
specify; for example, while you are on vacation.  You can set the start
and end dates as well as the reply interval for those who send you
multiple messages while you are away.  Set up your vacation message in the
Vacation Message dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.SS Views
You use the Views facility to display only those messages that match
certain criteria.  Define the matching criteria via the Search dialog box.  You then create
a view by naming the the search criteria and saving it.  The search criteria is saved
in the
.B views
variable in your
.B $HOME/.mailrc
file.  These views can be applied to any of your mailboxes.

dtmail provides two default views: all messages and new messages.
.sp 1
.SH RESOURCES
dtmail provides the following resources:
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Message_List*doubleClickInterval
The double-click time out (in milliseconds) for the Message Header List. The default
is 400 milliseconds.
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Message_List*background
The color to use for the Message Header List background. The default is system-dependent.
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Message_List*foreground
The color to use for the Message Header List foreground. The default is system-dependent.
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Message_List*fontList
The list of fonts to use in the Message Header List.  The
list must contain two fonts.  The first must be tagged
.B plain
and is the font used to render the header text.  The second must be tagged
.B attach
and is used to render the attachment indicator.  The default
is to use system-dependent, fixed-width fonts.
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Work_Area*Text*background
Color to use for the View and Compose window text background.  The default
is system-dependent.
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Work_Area*Text*foreground
Color to use for the View and Compose window text foreground.  The default
is system-dependent.
.TP
.BI Dtmail*Work_Area*Text*fontList
The list of fonts to use in the View and Compose windows.  Font tag "plain".
The default is to use a system-dependent, variable-width font.
.PP
The widget hierarchy for dtmail's main window is shown below.  The widget
class name is given first followed by it's instance name.
.PP
Dtmail  dtmail
.RS 2
XmMainWindow  mainWindow
.RS 2
XmForm  Work_Area
.RS 2
XmPanedWindow  panedW
.RS 2
XmForm  form2
.RS 2
XmScrolledWindow  Message_ListSW
.RS 2
XmList  Message_List
.RE
XmRowColumn  Toolbar
.RE
XmForm  form3
.RS 2
XmForm  Message_Status
.br
XmForm  DtMailEditor
.RS 2
DtEditor  Text
.br
XmForm  AttachPane
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
XmRowColumn  menubar
.RS 2
XmMenuShell  popup_Mailbox
.RS 2
XmRowColumn  Mailbox
.br
XmRowColumn  Message
.br
XmRowColumn  Compose
.br
XmRowColumn  View
.br
XmRowColumn  Options
.br
XmRowColumn  Move
.br
XmRowColumn  Help
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.PP
The widget hierarchy of dtmail's Compose window is shown below. The widget
class name is given first followed by it's instance name.
.PP
TopLevelShell  ComposeDialog
.RS 2
XmMainWindow  mainWindow
.RS 2
XmForm  Work_Area
.RS 2
XmForm  StatusForm
.br
XmForm  HeaderArea
.br
XmForm  DtMailEditor
.RS 2
DtEditor  Text
.br
XmForm  AttachPane
.RE
.RE
XmRowColumn  menubar
.RS 2
XmMenuShell  popup_File
.RS 2
XmRowColumn  File
.br
XmRowColumn  Edit
.br
XmRowColumn  Attachments
.br
XmRowColumn  Format
.br
XmRowColumn  Help
.sp 1
.SH MAIL VARIABLES
.sp .5
dtmail recognizes the following 
.BR mailx (1)
commands and variables:
.B unset, alias, group, set, ignore, source, if,
.B else, endif, alternates, keep, allnet,
and
.B metoo.
See the
.BR mailx (1)
man page for more information.
dtmail also recognizes the variables listed below.  They can be set by editing your
.B .mailrc
file; however, since most of the variables are accessible through
the dtmail Options menu, we strongly recommend that you modify
them there to reduce the chance of error. Unless otherwise noted, 
the default for the following variables is off.
.TP 10
.B additionalfields
A list of header fields to access via the
.B Format
menu.  You can set this variable in the Compose Window dialog box opened from the
Options menu.
.TP
.B bell
The number of times to ring the bell when new mail arrives.
You can set this variable in the Notification dialog box opened from the Options menu.
The default is 0.
.TP
.B cachedfilemenusize
Specifies the maximum number of entries that are appended to the Move menu, as well as
the Copy To Mailbox, and Open Mailbox submenus.  You can set this variable in the
Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options menu.  The default is 10.
.TP
.B composeinterval
The interval in seconds for saving the contents of the Compose window to the
.B mail.dead.letter
file.
The default is 10 minutes.
.TP
.B composewincols
The default width of the compose window (in columns).  You can set this variable in the
Compose Window dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B deaddir
The folder in which the dead letter file will be saved.  You can set this variable in the
Compose Window dialog box opened from the Options menu.  The default
is
.B $HOME/DeadLetters.
.TP
.B displaymsgsizewarning
If set, a warning popup dialog will be displayed when attempting to
send a message that exceeds the value specified by the
.B msgsizelimit
variable.  You can set this variable in the Advanced dialog box opened from the
Options menu.
.TP
.B dontautosave
Set this variable to prevent dtmail from automatically saving changes made
to your mailbox.
.TP
.B dontincludesignature
When set, the user defined signature is not automatically added to outgoing
messages.  You can set this variable in the Signature dialog box opened from
the Options menu.  If a signature is defined, this variable is not set by default
(which means the signature will be automatically included in outgoing messages).
.TP
.B dontdisplaycachedfiles
Specifies whether to append file names to the Move menu as well as the Copy To Mailbox
and Open Mailbox submenus. 
.TP
.B dontlogmessages
Controls whether or not the Save Outgoing Mail item is selected in the File Menu in
the Compose window. The default is to save outgoing mail. See also the
.B record
variable.

If you choose this menu item but do not specify a file under "Save a copy
of outgoing mail in" in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu, 
dtmail saves your outgoing mail in
.B $HOME/sent.mail.
.TP
.B dontsavemimemessageformat
dtmail converts all Sun Mail Tool format messages to MIME.  Setting this variable prevents
these MIME translations from being written back to the mailbox.  However, setting
this option also causes a significant decrease in performance when you open mailboxes.
You can set this variable in the Advanced dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B dontsendmimeformat
Set this variable to send messages in Sun Mail Tool message format instead of MIME.
You can set this variable in the Advanced dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B draftdir
Specifies the default directory for draft messages.
.\".TP
.\".B expert
.\"Set expert mode in which minimal confirmations are requested.
.\"You can set this variable in the
.\".B 
.\dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.\"filemenu2 supersedes filemenu.  dtmail does not support filemenu
.\".TP
.\".B filemenu
.TP
.B filemenu2
A space-separated list of mailboxes that appear on the Move menu, as well as the
Copy To Mailbox and Open Mailbox submenus.  They can be absolute path names or path names
relative to the directory specified in the
.B folder
variable.  For IMAP mailboxes, see
.B movemenu.
You can set this variable in the Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B filemenusize
Specifies the maximum number of entries in the Move menu as well as the Copy To Mailbox
and Open Mailbox submenus.  You can set this variable in the
Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options menu.  The default is 10.
.TP
.B flash
The number of times to flash the window or 
icon when new mail arrives.  You can set this variable in the
Notification dialog box opened from the Options menu.  The default is 0.
.TP
.B folder
Specifies the default directory for mailboxes.  You can set this variable in the
Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B headerlines
Specifies the number of message headers to display in the Message Header List.
You can set this variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu. 
The default is 15.
.TP
.B hideattachments
Set this variable to hide the attachments pane in the Compose Message window.
You can set this variable in the Compose Window dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B imapfolder
Specifies the default directory for your IMAP mailboxes.  You can set this variable in the
Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B imapfolderserver
Specifies the name of the host on which your IMAP mail folders reside.  You can set this
variable in the Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B imapinboxserver
Specifies the name of the host on which your IMAP Inbox is stored. You can set this
variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B inactivityinterval
The number of seconds between keystrokes before dtmail checks for new email or does an
auto save. The default is 30 seconds.
.TP
.B indentprefix
Specifies the string used to mark indented text from included messages.
You can set this variable in the Compose Window dialog box opened from the Options menu.
The default is "> ".
.TP
.B keepdeleted
Set this variable to prevent messages marked as deleted from being destroyed when closing
(exiting) dtmail.  You can set this variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the
Options menu. See also
.B quietdelete.
.TP
.B logdebug
Set this variable to have all IMAP protocol and miscellaneous debug messages printed
to stdout.
.TP
.B logerror
Set this variable to have all c-client fatal error messages sent to stdout.
.TP
.B lognotify
Set this variable to have all notifications from the c-client sent to stdout.
.TP
.B movemenu
A space-separated list of mailboxes that appear on the Move menu, as well as the 
Copy To Mailbox and Open Mailbox submenus. The mailbox names can be absolute path
names or path names relative to the directory specified in the
.B folder
variable.  This list can also contain entries that refer to remote IMAP mailboxes, of
the form:
.I mailboxname,servername,\imap.
You can set this variable in the Move Menu Setup dialog box opened from the Options
menu.
.TP
.B msgsizelimit
Specifies the maximum size of a message that you can send without causing a warning
message to be posted.  All messages whose size is greater than or equal to
this value will cause a warning message to be posted.  You can set this variable in the
Advanced dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B popuplines
Specifies the number of lines in the View Message and Compose Message windows.  You can
set this variable in the Message View dialog box opened from the Options menu. 
The default value is 30.
.TP
.B quietdelete
If set, dtmail does not post a message that asks if you would like to 
destroy the deleted messages when you close (exit) dtmail.  Set this 
variable under "Destroy Deleted Messages" in the Basic dialog box 
opened from the Options menu.  See also
.B keepdeleted.
.TP
.B realsound
Specifies the name of the sound file played when new mail arrives.  You can set this
variable in the Notification dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B record
Specifies the file in which to save your outgoing messages. You can  
set this variable by filling in the text field under "Save a copy of 
outgoing mail in" in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
If you leave that field blank, but choose to save outgoing mail, dtmail 
saves it in
.B $HOME/sent.mail. 

To control whether or not to save outgoing mail on a per-message basis, select or deselect
Save Outgoing Mail from the File menu in the Compose window. The
.B dontlogmessages
variable controls whether or not this item is selected by default.
You can set this variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B retrieveinterval
Specifies the interval that dtmail waits to check for new mail in your Inbox.  
You can set this variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
The default is 300 seconds.
.TP
.B saveinterval
Specifies the length of time between saving the state of your mailbox to disk.
The default is 10 minutes and the maximum is 30 minutes.  You can set this 
variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
The 
.B dontautosave
variable overrides the
.B saveinterval
variable. 
.\".B saveinterval 
.\"cannot be set through the dtmail GUI interface, so you 
.\"must edit your .mailrc file directly.
.\".TP
.\".B save
.\"Save contents of each Compose Message window in a dead.letter file until the
.\"message is delivered successfully.  If a Compose Message window is quit, and
.\"a new one is brought up, the new window will reuse the dead.letter from the
.\"previous window.  The first dead.letter file is called dead.letter, the
.\"second one is called dead.letter.1, the third dead.letter.2, and so on.
.\"The default is
.\".I on.
.\".TP
.TP
.B showmsgnum
Set this to show message numbers in the Message Header List.  You can set this variable
in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B showto
Shows the "To" field of mail messages in the Message Header List if
the mail is from the same user that is reading mail; for example, you.
You can set this variable in the Basic dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B signature
Specifies the file whose contents will be included in the Compose window. You can set
this variable in the Signature dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B smtpmailserver
Specifies the server where mail is to be sent from.  You can set this variable in the
Advanced dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B templatedir
The default directory for template files.
.TP
.B templates
A list of
.I name:path
pairs that represent the collection of templates listed in the Use Templates submenu
in the Format menu in the Compose window.
.I name
appears in the submenu;
.I path
is the file included in the Compose window when you select
.I name.
You can set this variable in the Templates dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B toolbarcommands
A space-separated list of command names that define which commands are
represented in the toolbar.  You can set this variable in the Toolbar
dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B toolbarusetext
Set this variable to have the toolbar use text labels instead of icons.
You can set this variable in the Toolbar dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B toolcols
The default width of the primary windows (in columns).
You can set this variable in the Message View dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B usealternates
If set, dtmail checks the address list of outgoing mail for addresses specified by the mailx
.BI alternates
command. You can set this variable in the Advanced dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B vacationatjobhost
Specifies the host name where dtmail was running when your vacation message was turned on.
.TP
.B vacationenddate
The date on which the vacation message will be turned off. You can set this variable in the
Vacation Message dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B vacationreplyinterval
Specifies the interval between replies to the same sender.
For example; if this variable is set to 3, someone
who sends you a message while you are away will not receive your vacation 
message again until three days after receipt of the first vacation 
message from you. You can set this variable in the
Vacation Message dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B vacationstartatjobid
The id number returned from the "at" command used to turn on your vacation message.
.TP
.B vacationstartdate
The date your vacation message is turned on. You can set this variable in the
Vacation Message dialog box opened from the Options menu.
.TP
.B vacationstopatjobid
The id number returned from the "at" command used to turn off your vacation message.
.TP
.B slownet
If set, when you click a message header, dtmail loads the message text but not 
the attachment contents.  They are loaded only when you double-click the attachment
icon.  You can also set this variable by selecting When Open under 
Retrieve attachments in the Login dialog box.  Use this option in a low-bandwidth
connection.
.TP
.B views
A list of
.I name:value
pairs separated by a semicolon (;), that represent the views you have defined.
The
.I name
portion can be any ASCII string; spaces are allowed. The
.I value
portion can be any valid IMAP4 search string.  Define views via the Search
dialog box opened from the Message menu.
.sp 1
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
The following environment variables affect the execution of dtmail:
.TP
.BI \s-1HOME\s+1= directory
The user's home directory.
.TP
.BI \s-1MAIL\s0= filename
The name of the initial mailbox file to read (in lieu of the
standard system mailbox).  The default is system-dependent.
See FILES section.
.TP
.BI \s-1MAILRC\s+1= filename
The name of the startup file. The default is
.B $HOME/.mailrc.
.sp 1
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/mail/* (Sun)
.TP
.B /var/spool/mail/* (IBM)
.TP
.B /usr/mail* (HP)
System mailboxes
.TP
.B /etc/mail/mailx.rc
System setup file that is read in before
.B $HOME/.mailrc.
.TP
.B $HOME/.mailrc
Startup file for dtmail.
.TP
.B /usr/dt/bin/dtmail
dtmail executable.
.TP
.B /usr/dt/app-defaults/<LANG>/Dtmail
Application defaults for dtmail.
.sp 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.BR mail (1),
.BR mailx (1),
.BR newaliases (1),
.BR sendmail (1M),
.BR vacation (1),
.BR aliases (4),
.BR ttmedia_load (3),
.BR Mail (4),
.BR Display (4).
