.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dtprintegrate 1X "13 May 1994"
.BH "13 May -1994"
.de V1
\fBdtprintegrate\fR
..
.\"---
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
dtprintegrate \- integrate a printer into the desktop
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.V1
\fR[\fB-d\fI destination\fR] 
\fR[\fB-i\fI icon_name\fR] 
\fR[\fB-h\fI help_text \fB|\fR \fB-f\fR \fIhelp_file\fR] 
\fR[\fB-r\fR] 
\fR[\fB-u\fR] 
\fR[\fB-v\fR] 
\fR\fIprinter_name\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.V1
utility, run at printer installation time, accepts
a small number of parameters and creates the appropriate desktop configuration
files for easy user access.  
.PP
After the system administrator has run \fBdtprintegrate\fR, the end user
will see an icon for the new printer in the \f(CWPrinters\fR
container, part of
the Application Manager.  By dropping a file on this printer icon, the
user invokes the \f(CWPrint\fR action for that filetype, with the 
\f(CWLPDEST\fR destination set appropriately.  
By double-clicking the printer icon, the
user invokes the \f(CWPrintManager\fR action for that printer.
.PP
Because it writes in system configuration directories by default, 
.V1 
is usually
run at a privileged level.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d \fIdestination\fR
Specifies the printer destination as known to the print spooler (if 
different from the \fIprinter_name\fR).
.TP
\fB-i \fIicon_name\fR
Include the icon file name to represent the printer on the desktop.
The \fIicon_name\fR may consist of just the basename (\fIe.g.\fR,
\f(CWlaser3\fR) or a complete file name (\fIe.g.\fR, \f(CWlaser3.l.pm\fR).
The directories listed in the \f(CWDTPRINTICONPATH\fR environment variable
will be searched for icons matching the basename. Any found will
be copied to the \f(CWDTPRINTERICONFOLDER\fR subdirectory.  (See the
\fIENVIRONMENT\fR section below.)
If an icon cannot be found on the search path
a warning message will be issued and the default printer icon will be
used.
.TP
\fB-h\fR \fIhelp_text\fR
Specifies the \fIhelp_text\fR to be displayed when the user invokes help
on the printer icon, typically by pressing function key 1 when the
printer icon is selected.
.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIhelp_file\fR
Read the contents of the entire \fIhelp_file\fR into the descriptive 
help for the printer. 
.TP
\fB-r\fR
Forces the action database to be reloaded.  Normally, the actionbase
is reloaded only when the printer is integrated on the local desktop
host.  This option is useful when adding a printer by means of an
X station.
.TP
\fB-u\fR
Causes the named printer to be \fIun\fR-integrated.  That is, its
desktop configuration files will be removed from the configured
locations on the session server.
.TP
\fB-v\fR 
Causes the utility to print a log of its actions.
By default, the command operates silently.
.TP
\fIprinter_name\fR
Names the printer as it will be presented to the end user.  By default, also 
names the printer as it is known to the lp print spooler.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 15
0
Command completed sucessfully.
.TP 15
1
Command completed unsucessfully due to a usage error.
.TP 15
2
Command completed unsucessfully due to a configuration file creation
error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
.TP 15
.SM DTPRINTERFOLDER
Causes the 
.V1
command to install the Printer
action file in the specified subdirectory.
Default value is \f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Printers\fR, where
it will be presented under the \f(CWPrinters\fR container of
the Application Manager.
.TP 15
.SM DTPRINTACTIONFOLDER
Causes the
.V1 
command to install the Printer
action definition file (\f(CW*.dt\fR) 
in the specified subdirectory.
Default value is \f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C\fR.
.TP 15
.SM DTPRINTICONPATH
Sets the path to search for icon images.  The path may consist of a
comma-separated list of subdirectories.
Default value is \f(CW.,$HOME/.dt/icons,/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/C\fR.
.TP 15
.SM DTPRINTERICONFOLDER
Specifies the subdirectory where printer icons should be installed for
the desktop.  Default value is \f(CW/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/C\fR.
.TP 15
.SM LPDEST
Set in the \f(CWPrint\fR action
by
.V1
to specify the printer.  It is honored
by the lp print spooling subsystem and by most applications.
It is set to the \fIprinter_name\fR as specified on the command line.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
\fB/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Printers\fR
The default location for printer action files shipped from the factory.
.TP 20
\fB/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Printers\fR
The default location for configured printer action files.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtappgather (1X).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 20
.B Unable to create the file "<name>" under subdirectory "<name>"
The command probably did not have write privileges to install the
named configuration file in the named subdirectory.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \f(CWPrint\fR action is mapped to the appropriate execution string.
For application-specific files (\fIe.g.\fR, a file having an
application-defined \f(CW*.art\fR suffix), the \f(CWPrint\fR action
may map to a command to invoke the application with a \f(CW-print\fR
parameter and with the \f(CWLPDEST\fR environment variable set to the
printer name.   Files that have no predefined \f(CWPrint\fR action mappings will
be assumed to be ASCII text files whose \f(CWPrint\fR action is an
invocation of the \fBlp\fR spooler for the chosen printer.
.\""""""""""""""
