.cdes
.TH dtqueueinfo 1 "31 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
dtqueueinfo \- display status of print queues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtqueueinfo 
[\f2printer\fP ...]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm dtqueueinfo
utility implements the Cde Print Queue Service
by presenting a graphical interface that
displays the status of print queues and print jobs.
Additional information about print queues or print
jobs can be retrieved within the interface, and individual
print jobs can be deleted.
.P
The applicable print queues can be selected using the
.I printer
operand or the
.I LPDEST
environment variable.
If neither is set, all print queues are displayed.
.SH CAPABILITIES
.cdee
The Cde Print Queue Service has the following capabilities:
.VL 3
.LI \(bu
Capability #1 ...
.LI \(bu
Capability #2 ...
.LE
.cdes
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.VL 6
.LI \f2printer\fP
.br
Display information only for the specified print queues.
The
.I printer
operands override the value in the
.I LPDEST
environment variable.
.LE
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm qq :
.VL 15
.LI \f2LPDEST\fP
Determines which print queue to display. 
If this variable is set and no
.I printer
operands are given, only the print queue named by
.I LPDEST
will be shown.
.LE
.\" HLJ:  What about the LANG & LC_* variables?
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
Not used.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI \00
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.LE
.\" HLJ: Just guessing about those values...
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
View the status of the print queues:
.Cs I
dtqueueinfo
.Ce
.P
View the status of the print queue called
.BR lp0 :
.Cs I
dtqueueinfo lp0
.Ce
.P
View the status of print queues called
.B lp0
and
.BR lp1 :
.Cs I
dtqueueinfo lp0 lp1
.Ce
.SH "SEE ALSO"
??
.cdee
