.\"---
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"     (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\"---
.TH dtsession_res 1 "05 Dec 1994"
.BH "05 Dec 1994""
.SH NAME
dtsession_res - CDE dtsession resource load utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
dtsession_res -load|-merge [-system] [-xdefaults] [-file <name>]
.P
NOTE: The Common Desktop Environment (CDE)
.B dtsession_res
utility is used by
.B dtsession
and the
.B ReloadResources
action to load session resources. It is not intended to be run directly
from the command line.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CDE dtsession_res utility uses
.B xrdb(1)
to load the session resources into the 
RESOURCE_MANAGER property of the root window of the display. The session
resources are gathered from the following files:
.RS
.P
- /usr/dt/config/$LANG/sys.resources
.P
- /etc/dt/config/$LANG/sys.resources
.P
- $HOME/.Xdefaults
.P
- $HOME/.dt/<session dir>/dt.resources
.RE
.P
Refer to the
.B
dtsession(1)
man page for more information on these files and their content.
.P
The
.B dtsession_res
utility provides support for display-specific resources by converting 
the $DISPLAY value into a
.B cpp(1)
macro that can be used in a session resource file to limit resource
definitions to a particular display. It does this by converting all
\'\.' (dot) and ':' (colon) characters to '_', stripping off any screen
specification and finally prefixing 'DISPLAY_' to the result. For example,
a $DISPLAY of ':0' would be 'DISPLAY_0', and a $DISPLAY of 'blanco.gato.com:0.0'
would be 'DISPLAY_blanco_gato_com_0'. The resulting value can be used
as part of a
.B cpp
test in a session resource file. For example:
.RS
.P
.nf
Myapp*resource: value
.P
#ifdef DISPLAY_blanco_gato_com_0
Myapp*resource: specialvalue1
#endif
.P
#ifdef DISPLAY_pablo_gato_com_0
Myapp*resource: specialvalue2
#endif
.fi
.RE
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.SS -load
Replace the current RESOURCE_MANAGER content with the session resources.
.SS -merge
Merge the current RESOURCE_MANAGER content with the session resources.
.SS -system
Load or merge the system session resources.
.SS -xdefaults
Load or merge the $HOME/.Xdefault file.
.SS -file <name>
Load or merge the file specified by <name>.
.SH EXAMPLES
The
.B dtsession_res
utility is not intended to be run from the command line. Refer to the
.B ReloadResources
action for information on how to reload session resources in a
user's session.
.P
.nf
dtsession_res -load -system -xdefaults \\
   -file $HOME/.dt/sessions/current/dt.resources
.fi
.P
Replaces the RESOURCE_MANAGER with the content of the following files:
.P
- /usr/dt/config/$LANG/sys.resources,
.P
- /etc/dt/config/$LANG/sys.resources,
.P
- $HOME/.Xdefaults and
.P
- $HOME/.dt/sessions/current/dt.resources files.
