.TH dtterm 1 "21 Apr 1994"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtterm \- emulate a terminal window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" following kludge because HP man command does not display \(+- correctly
.ds Pm \(+-
.if n .ds Pm +/\-
.yS
dtterm
[\*(Pm132]
[\*(Pmaw]
[\-background\0\f2background_color\fP]
[\-bg\0\f2background_color\fP]
[\*(Pmbs]
[\-C]
[\-display\0\f2display_name\fP]
[\-e\0\f2program_argument\0...\fP]
[\-fb\0\f2fontset\fP]
[\-fg\0\f2foreground_color\fP]
[\-fn\0\f2fontset\fP]
[\-foreground\0\f2foreground_color\fP]
[\-geometry\0\f2geometry_string\fP]
[\-help]
[\*(Pmiconic]
[\*(Pmj]
[\*(PmkshMode]
[\*(Pml]
[\-lf\0\f2file_name\fP]
[\*(Pmls]
[\*(Pmmap]
[\*(Pmmb]
[\-ms\0\f2pointer_color\fP]
[\-name\0\f2prog_name\fP]
[\-nb\0\f2number\fP]
[\*(Pmrw]
[\-S\0\f2ccn\fP]
[\-S\0\f2c.n\fP]
[\*(Pmsb]
[\*(Pmsf]
[\-sl\0\f2screens\fP[s\||\|l]]
[\-ti\0\f2term_id\fP]
[\-title\0\f2title_string\fP]
[\-tm\0\f2term_modes\fP]
[\-tn\0\f2term_name\fP]
[\-usage]
[\*(Pmvb]
[\-xrm\0\f2resource_string\fP]
.yE
.rm Pm
.SH DESCRIPTION
.cdes
The
.Cm dtterm
utility provides runtime support of legacy applications
written for terminals conforming to \f3ANSI X3.64-1979\fP and
\f3ISO 6429:1992(E)\fP, such as the DEC VT220.
.cdee
.xos
The
.Cm dtterm
utility provides runtime support of applications
written for terminals conforming to the \*(Z5 and the \*(Z6.
.xoe
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm dtterm
utility does not support the \*(Zu because it uses the X Window
System convention of full-word options.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-132\fP
Recognize the
.Cn DECCOLM
escape sequence and resize the window appropriately.
Normally,
.Cm dtterm
ignores the
.Cn DECCOLM
escape sequence, which
switches between 80- and 132-column mode.
.LI \f3\+132\fP
Ignore the
.Cn DECCOLM
escape sequence.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-aw\fP
Allow auto-wraparound.
This option allows the cursor to automatically wrap to the beginning of the next
line when it is at the right-most position of a line and text is output.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\+aw\fP
Do not allow auto-wraparound.
.LI "\f3\-background\fP\0\f2background_color\fP"
.br
Specify the terminal window background
and the default background for the
scroll bar and the X11 pointer cursor.
This option defaults to either the primary colorset
background (default) or select pixel (see
.BR \-bs ).
.hps
(When not running under HPVUE,
it defaults to
.B *background/*Background
with an ultimate fallback color of black.)
.hpe
The
.I background_color
argument describes the background color.
.LI "\f3\-bg\fP\0\f2background_color\fP"
.br
Equivalent to
.BR \-background .
The
.I background_color
argument describes the background color.
.LI \f3\-bs\fP
Use the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color.
.LI \f3\+bs\fP
Do not use the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-C\fP
Specify that output directed to
.B /dev/console
be directed instead to the terminal window.
It is provided as a way to prevent output,
which would normally be displayed on the
internal terminal emulator (ITE), from overwriting the X server's display.
It is not provided as a general purpose mechanism to direct the output from
an arbitrary system's
.B /dev/console
to an arbitrary X server.
Ownership of, and read-write permission for,
.B /dev/console
is required in order to redirect console output.
.LI "\f3\-display\fP\0\f2display_name\fP"
.br
Specify the X11 display server.
This defaults to the
.I DISPLAY
environment variable.
The
.I display_name
argument specifies the X11 display to which
.Cm dtterm
connects.
.LI "\f3\-e\fP\0\f2program_argument ...\fP"
.br
Specify an executable program and any command-line arguments
.Cm dtterm
invokes as a subprocess when
.Cm dtterm
is started.
It must be the last option on the command line.
The
.I program_argument
arguments specify the program
and any command-line arguments
to be invoked by
.Cm dtterm .
.LI "\f3\-fb\fP\0\f2fontset\fP"
.br
Specify an
.B XFontSet
used by
.Cm dtterm
when displaying bold terminal text.
The
.B XFontSet
should be specified as a Motif
.cde .BR XmFontList 3X.
.xo .BR XmFontList .
The terminal emulator supports only character or mono-spaced fonts.
When using proportional fonts, the behavior is undefined.
The terminal emulator generates a default bold font based on the
XLFD
name of the
.BR userFont .
If that font is not available,
the terminal emulator
generates bold text
by overstriking (with a one pixel offset) the
.BR userFont .
The
.I fontset
argument specifies the bold terminal
.B XFontSet
used by
.Cm dtterm .
.LI "\f3\-fg\fP\0\f2foreground_color\fP"
.br
Specify the foreground color of the terminal window as
well as the default foreground color
used by
.Cm dtterm
for the scroll bar and the
for the X11 pointer cursor.
This option defaults to either the primary colorset
foreground (default) or select pixel.
.hps
(When not running under HPVUE,
it defaults to
.B *foreground/*Foreground
with an ultimate fallback color of white.)
.hpe
The
.I foreground_color
argument specifies the foreground color.
.LI "\f3\-fn\fP\0\f2fontset\fP"
.br
Specify an
.B XFontSet
used by
.Cm dtterm
when displaying terminal text.
It should be specified as a Motif
.cde .BR XmFontList 3X.
.xo .BR XmFontList .
Only character or mono-spaced fonts are supported.
When using proportional fonts, the behavior is undefined.
This font is not used to display non-terminal text (such as menu bar, popup
menus or dialogs).
The default uses the
.B XmNtextFontList
value of the parent bulletin
board (see the XmBulletinBoard widget)
in the same manner as the XmText widget.
The
.I fontset
argument specifies the terminal
.BR XFontSet .
.LI "\f3\-geometry\fP\0\f2geometry_string\fP"
.br
Specify the terminal window's preferred size and position.
Width and height are expressed in characters.
The default size is 24 lines of 80 characters each.
There is no default position.
The
.I geometry_string
argument specifies the terminal geometry
used by
.Cm dtterm .
.LI \f3\-help\fP
.br
Display a message summarizing
.Cm dtterm
usage.
.LI \f3\-iconic\fP
.br
Display the terminal emulator initially in an iconified state.
.LI \f3\+iconic\fP
.br
Display the terminal emulator initially as a normal window.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-j\fP
Use jump scrolling.
With jump scrolling, the screen may be scrolled more than one line at a time.
This provides for faster screen updates when multiple lines of text are sent
to the terminal.
The maximum number of lines that may be
jump scrolled is limited to the number of lines in the terminal window.
The
.Cm dtterm
terminal emulator guarantees that all lines are displayed.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\+j\fP
Do not use jump scrolling.
.LI \f3\-kshMode\fP
.br
Enable
.Cm ksh
mode.
In
.Cm ksh
mode, a key pressed with the extend modifier bit set generates an
escape character followed by the character generated by the un-extended
keystroke.
.hps
This option is provided for use with
.Cm emacs 1
and the emacs
command-line editor mode of
.Cm ksh 1
or
.Cm ied 1.
.hpe
This option is provided for use with
.Cm emacs
command-line editor mode of
.Cm ksh 1.
It conflicts with the
normal meta key use for generating extended single byte
characters and for generating multi-byte Asian characters.
.LI \f3\+kshMode\fP
.br
Do not enable
.Cm ksh 1
mode.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-l\fP
Enables output logging.
When
.Cm dtterm
enables logging, all output received from the subprocess is
logged either to a file or to a command pipeline (as specified via the
.B \-lf
option described in the following paragraph).
Since data are logged directly from the subprocess, the log file includes
all escape characters and carriage-return and newline pairs the terminal
line discipline sends.
The application may enable and disable logging via escape sequences.
.LI \f3\+l\fP
Disable output logging.
This is the default behavior.
.LI "\f3\-lf\fP\0\f2file_name\fP"
.br
Name the file to which
.Cm dtterm
writes the output log.
If the
.I file_name
argument begins with a pipe symbol
(\||\|),
.Cm dtterm
assumes the rest of the string to be a command
to be used as the endpoint of a pipe.
The default file name is
.B DttermLog \c
.I XXXXX 
(where
.I XXXXX
is a unique value)
and is created in the directory
from which the subprocess was started.
The
.I file_name
argument specifies the log file name
used by
.Cm dtterm
for logging.
.LI \f3\-ls\fP
.cdes
Start a login shell (the first character of
.IR argv [0]
is a dash), indicating
to the shell that it should read the system's
.B profile
and the user's
.B \&.profile
files
(for
.Cm ksh 1
and
.Cm sh 1),
or the system's
.B csh.login
and the user's
.B \&.login
(for
.Cm csh 1).
.cdee
.xos
Start a login
shell (the first character of
.IR argv [0]
is a dash), indicating
to the shell that it should read the system's
.B profile
and the user's
.B \&.profile
files
(for
.Cm ksh 1
and
.Cm sh 1).
.xoe
.LI \f3\+ls\fP
Start a normal (non-login) shell.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-map\fP
Map (de-iconify)
.Cm dtterm
upon subprocess output if
.Cm dtterm
is unmapped (iconified).
The user can specify, via the
.B mapOnOutputDelay
resource,
an initial period of time during which
.Cm dtterm
does not map itself upon
subprocess output.
.LI \f3\+map\fP
Indicate there is no special mapping behavior.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-mb\fP
Ring a bell when
the user types at a specified distance from the right margin.
The distance from the
right margin is specified by the
.B \-nb
option.
.LI \f3\+mb\fP
Do not ring a bell when the user types near the right margin.
This is the default behavior.
.LI "\f3\-ms\fP\0\f2pointer_color\fP"
.br
Specify the foreground color
used by
.Cm dtterm
for the terminal
window's (X11) pointer cursor.
The default is the terminal
window's foreground color (see
.BR \-foreground ).
The
.I pointer_color
argument specifies the pointer foreground color
used by
.Cm dtterm .
.LI "\f3\-name\fP\0\f2prog_name\fP"
.br
Specify the X11 name of the
.Cm dtterm
window.
The
.I prog_name
argument specifies the name to use.
.LI "\f3\-nb\fP\0\f2number\fP"
.br
Ring the bell this number of characters from the right
margin when enabled.
The default is 10.
The
.I number
argument specifies the number of characters.
.LI \f3\-rw\fP
Enable reverse-wraparound.
.LI \f3\+rw\fP
Do not enable reverse-wraparound.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\-S\fP\f2ccn\fP
.br
Run the terminal emulator against a pre-opened
.cde .B pty
.cde or STREAMS
pseudo-terminal device.
The terminal emulator provides this option to use when the
pseudo-terminal device name is of the form
.B tty??
(that is, exactly two characters following the
.BR tty ).
This option is intended for use when
.Cm dtterm
is programmatically invoked from within another application.
The
.I cc
argument specifies the last two characters of the
pseudo-terminal device's slave name where the
pseudo-terminal device slave name is of the form
.BR tty?? .
This value is ignored, but must be exactly two characters in length.
The
.I n
argument specifies the file descriptor number that corresponds to the
pseudo-terminal device's already opened master side.
.LI \f3\-S\fP\f2c.n\fP
.br
Equivalent to \f3\-S\fP\f2ccn\fP,
but provided for systems with a larger
pseudo-terminal device name space.
The
.I c
argument specifies the last component of the
pseudo-terminal device slave name.
The terminal emulator ignores this value and the value may be empty.
The
.I n
argument specifies the number of the file descriptor that corresponds to the
pseudo-terminal device's already opened master side.
.LI \f3\-sb\fP
Display a scroll bar.
This is the default behavior.
.LI \f3\+sb\fP
Do not display a scroll bar.
.LI \f3\-sf\fP
Generate Sun Function Key escape sequences instead of
.cde standard ANSI escape sequences
.xo the escape sequences described in
.xo .cX dtterm.5
for the terminal's function keys.
.xo See
.xo .cX sunfunckeys
.xo for a description of the Sun Function Key escape sequences.
.LI \f3\+sf\fP
Generate
.cde standard ANSI escape sequences
.xo the escape sequences described in
.xo .cX dtterm.5
instead of Sun Function Key escape sequences for the terminal's function keys.
This is the default behavior.
.LI "\f3\-sl\fP\0\f2screens\fP[\f3s|l\fP]"
.br
Specify the number of lines in the terminal buffer beyond the
length of the window.
The option value consists of a number followed by
an optional suffix.
If no suffix is included or the suffix is ``l'' (ell), the
total length of the terminal buffer is
.I screens
plus the length of
the terminal window.
If the suffix is ``s'' (ess) the total length of the
terminal buffer is (\c
.IR screens +1)
times the length of the terminal window.
The
.Cm dtterm
utility attempts to maintain the same buffer-to-window
ratio when the window is resized larger.
The default is
.BR 4s .
The
.I screens
argument specifies the number of screens or lines to save.
.LI "\f3\-ti\fP\0\f2term_id\fP"
.br
Specify the name used by
.Cm dtterm
to select the correct response to terminal ID queries.
Valid values are
.BR vt100 ,
.BR vt101 ,
.BR vt102 ,
and
.BR vt220 .
The default is
.BR vt220 .
The
.I term_id
argument specifies the terminal ID to use.
.LI "\f3\-title\fP\0\f2title_string\fP"
.br
Specify the window title.
When used with the
.B \-e
option, the default is the last component of the program's path;
otherwise, the default is the last
component of the name used to execute
.Cm dtterm
(that is,
.IR argv [0]).
The
.I title_string
argument specifies the title
used by
.Cm dterm .
.LI "\f3\-tm\fP\0\f2term_modes\fP"
.br
Specify a string containing terminal-setting keywords
and the characters to which they can be bound.
Allowable keywords include:
.BR intr ,
.BR quit ,
.BR erase ,
.BR kill ,
.BR eof ,
.BR eol ,
.BR swtch ,
.BR start ,
.BR stop ,
.BR brk ,
.BR susp ,
.BR dsusp ,
.BR rprnt ,
.BR flush ,
.B weras
and
.BR lnext .
The terminal emulator
correctly parses and silently ignores keywords that do not apply
to a specific architecture.
Control characters can be specified as
.BI ^ char
(for example,
.B ^c
or
.BR ^u ),
and
.B ^?
can be used to indicate Delete.
.cdes
This is useful for overriding the default
terminal settings without having to do an
.Cm stty 1
every time a DtTerm widget is created.
.cdee
The default is
.Cn NULL .
The
.I term_modes
argument specifies the terminal mode string.
.LI "\f3\-tn\fP\0\f2term_name\fP"
.br
Specify a name to which
.Cm dtterm
sets the
.I TERM
environment variable.
The default is
.Cm dtterm .
The
.I term_name
argument specifies the terminal name
used by
.Cm dtterm .
.LI \f3\-usage\fP
.br
Display a usage message on the screen.
.LI \f3\-vb\fP
Use a visual bell instead of an audible one.
Flash the window instead of ringing the
terminal bell whenever a <control>\(hyG is received.
.LI \f3\+vb\fP
Use an audio bell instead of a visual one.
This is the default behavior.
.LI "\f3\-xrm\fP\0\f2resource_string\fP"
.br
Allow the user to specify the X11 Resource Manager-style
resources on the command line.
The
.I resource_string
argument specifies an X11 resource string.
(See
.Fn XrmParseCommand 3X
and
.Fn XGetDefault 3X
for more information.)
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm dtterm :
.VL 15
.LI \f2DISPLAY\fP
Specify the default X Windows display to connect to (see
.BR \-display ).
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's
.I DISPLAY
environment variable to the connected X11 display name.
.LI \f2HOME\fP
Determine the user's home directory,
the location of configuration files.
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LI \f2SHELL\fP
Determine the default application to run.
.LI \f2XAPPLRESDIR\fP
Specify the name of a directory that contains application-specific resources.
If this environment variable
is defined, and is set to an existing directory, then it is searched (in
addition to the standard locations) for files containing
application-specific resource specifications.
.LI \f2XENVIRONMENT\fP
.br
Specify the name of a resource file with
user- or machine-specific resources.
If this variable is not defined,
.Cm dtterm
looks for a file named
.BR $HOME/.Xdefaults- \c
.I hostname
instead,
where
.I hostname
is the name of the host where the application is executing.
.LI \f2XFILESEARCHPATH\fP
.br
Define a language-dependent location of
.BR app-defaults .
.LI \f2XMODIFIER\fP
Specify which input method to use.
.LI \f2XUSERFILESEARCHPATH\fP
.br
Control where X applications look for their
.B app-defaults
resource files.
The default is located in the directory
.BR /usr/dt/app-defaults .
.hp (Under Motif without CDE, the default is
.hp .BR /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults ).
The user must set
.I XUSERFILESEARCHPATH
if the user's resource
files are not in this location.
.LE
.P
The terminal emulator
creates the following variable when it invokes another process:
.VL 15
.hps
.LI \f2COLUMNS\fP
.br
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's
.I COLUMNS
environment variable to the number of columns present in the terminal
window at creation.
If the size of the terminal window is subsequently
changed the terminal emulator uses the
.I TIOCSWINSZ
.Fn ioctl
to inform the applications running against it of the new column count.
Under normal use, the user's shell updates
.I COLUMNS
with the updated value.
.LI \f2LINES\fP
.br
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's
.I LINES
environment variable to the number of lines present in the terminal
window at creation.
If the size of the terminal window is subsequently
changed, the terminal emulator uses the
.Cn TIOCSWINSZ
.Fn ioctl 2
to inform the applications running against it of the newline count.
Under normal use, the user's shell updates
.I LINES
with the updated value.
.hpe
.LI \f2TERM\fP
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's
.I TERM
environment variable to the
.B termName
resource value.
Applications use this variable to determine the type of escape sequences to use
when driving the terminal emulator.
.LI \f2TERMINAL_EMULATOR\fP
.br
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's
.I TERMINAL_EMULATOR
environment variable to
.Cm dtterm
to indicate that the process is running from a
.Cm dtterm
terminal emulator.
.LI \f2WINDOWID\fP
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's
.I WINDOWID
environment variable to the window number of the window in which text
is rendered.
.LE
.SH RESOURCES
The
.Cm dtterm
utility allows the user to specify behavior through X11 resources
as well as the command-line interface.
The following is a list of the defined resources:
.P
.cde .ne 10
.DS
.S -1
.TS
.xo expand box tab(@);
.cde tab(@);
cf3 ssss
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1
.xo lf3 1 | lf3 1 | lf3 1 | l   1 .
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1
.cde lf3 1 lf3 1 lf3 1 l   1 .
The dtterm Client Resource Set
_
Name@Class@Type@Default
_
allowSendEvents@AllowSendEvents@Boolean@False
appCursorDefault@AppCursorDefault@Boolean@False
appKeypadDefault@AppKeypadDefault@Boolean@False
autoWrap@AutoWrap@Boolean@True
background@Background@String
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
backgroundIsSelect@BackgroundIsSelect@Boolean@False
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" backgroundIsSelect@BackgroundIsSelect@Boolean@True
blinkRate@BlinkRate@int@250
borderColor@BorderColor@String@``black''
borderWidth@BorderWidth@int@0
c132@C132@Boolean@False
charCursorStyle@CharCursorStyle@String@``char_cursor_box''
consoleMode@ConsoleMode@Boolean@False
foreground@Foreground@String
geometry@Geometry@String@NULL
iconic@Iconic@Boolean@False
iconName@IconName@String@``dtterm''
jumpScroll@JumpScroll@Boolean@True
kshMode@KshMode@Boolean@False
logging@Logging@Boolean@False
logFile@LogFile@String@``DttermLog\f2XXXXX\fP'' (where
@@@   \f2XXXXX\fP is a unique value)
logInhibit@LogInhibit@Boolean@False
loginShell@LoginShell@Boolean@False
mapOnOutput@AutoMap@Boolean@False
mapOnOutputDelay@MapDelay@int@0
marginBell@MarginBell@Boolean@False
menuBar@MenuBar@Boolean@True
menuPopup@MenuPopup@Boolean@True
nMarginBell@NMarginBell@int@10
pointerBlank@PointerBlank@Boolean@False
pointerBlankDelay@PointerBlankDelay@int@2
pointerColor@Foreground@String@foreground color
pointerColorBackground@Background@String@background color
pointerShape@PointerShape@String@``xterm''
reverseWrap@ReverseWrap@Boolean@False
saveLines@SaveLines@String@4s
scrollBar@ScrollBar@Boolean@True
sunFunctionKeys@SunFunctionKeys@Boolean@False
termId@TermId@String@``vt220''
termName@TermName@String@``dtterm''
title@Title@String@``dtterm''
ttyModes@TtyModes@String@NULL
userBoldFont@UserBoldFont@XmFontList@dynamic
userFont@UserFont@XmFontList@dynamic
visualBell@VisualBell@Boolean@False
.TE
.S +1
.DE
.P
.VL 6
.LI \f3allowSendEvents\fP
.br
Specifies that the terminal emulator allow
synthetic events (generated and sent by another application).
Enabling this resource opens up a possible security hole.
.LI \f3appCursorDefault\fP
.br
If True,
the cursor keys are initially in application mode.
If False,
the cursor keys are initially in cursor mode.
.LI \f3appKeypadDefault\fP
.br
If True,
the keypad keys are initially in application mode.
If False,
the keypad keys are initially in numeric mode.
.LI \f3autoWrap\fP
.br
Specifies whether or not auto-wraparound is initially
enabled.
.LI \f3background\fP
.br
Specifies the
background color of the terminal window as well as the default background
color for the
scroll bar.
This resource defaults to either the primary
colorset background
or select
pixel (see
.BR backgroundIsSelect ).
.hp (When not being run under HPVUE,
.hp this resource defaults to black.)
.LI \f3backgroundIsSelect\fP
.br
Specifies that the terminal window should use the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color.
.LI \f3blinkRate\fP
.br
Specifies the number of milliseconds the cursor is in the
on and off states while blinking.
A value of 250 blinks the cursor two times per second.
A value of zero turns blinking off.
.LI \f3borderColor\fP
.br
Specifies the border color for the window.
The window border
need not be visible when re-parenting window managers are used.
.LI \f3borderWidth\fP
.br
Specifies the border width of the shell widget's window.
This value may be overridden by re-parenting window managers.
.LI \f3c132\fP
Specifies whether or not the
.Cn DECCOLM
escape sequence, which
switches between a 132- and 80-column window, is honored.
.LI \f3charCursorStyle\fP
.br
This resource specifies the shape of the text cursor.
A
.Cn char_cursor_box
value specifies a cursor the width and height of the base
font's bounding box.
A
.Cn char_cursor_bar
value specifies a cursor the
width of the base font's bounding box, 2 pixels high, and drawn with its
top on the baseline.
.LI \f3consoleMode\fP
.br
Specifies that output directed at
.B /dev/console
be directed instead to the terminal window.
It is provided as a way to
prevent output, that would normally be displayed on the internal terminal emulator
(ITE), from overwriting the X server's display.
It is not provided as a general mechanism to
direct the output from an arbitrary system's
.B /dev/console
to an arbitrary X server.
Ownership of, and read-write permission for,
.B /dev/console
is required in order to redirect console output.
.LI \f3foreground\fP
.br
Specifies the foreground of the terminal window as well as
the default
used by
.Cm dtterm
for the scroll bar and the color used for the pointer cursor.
This resource defaults to the primary
colorset foreground pixel.
.hp (When not running under HPVUE,
.hp this resource defaults to white.)
.LI \f3geometry\fP
.br
Specifies the terminal window's preferred size and position.
The default size is 24 lines of 80 characters each.
There is no default position.
.LI \f3iconGeometry\fP
.br
Specifies the preferred position of the terminal emulator's icon.
Window managers may ignore this value.
There is no default.
.LI \f3iconic\fP
.br
Specifies whether or not the terminal emulator is initially
displayed in an iconified state.
.LI \f3iconName\fP
.br
Specifies the name for the icon.
When used with the
.B \-e
option, the default
is the last component of the program's path;
otherwise,
the default is the last component of the name used to execute
.Cm dtterm
(that is,
.IR argv [0]).
.LI \f3jumpScroll\fP
.br
Specifies that
.Cm dtterm
use jump scrolling.
With jump
scrolling, the screen may be scrolled more than one line at a time.
This provides for faster screen updates when multiple lines of text are
sent to the terminal.
The maximum number of lines that may be
jump scrolled is limited to the number of lines in the terminal window.
The
.Cm dtterm
terminal emulator guarantees that all lines are displayed.
.LI \f3kshMode\fP
.br
Enables ksh mode.
With ksh
mode, a key pressed with the extend modifier bit set generates an
escape character followed by the character generated by the un-extended
keystroke.
.hps
This option is provided for use with
.Cm emacs 1
and the emacs
command-line editor mode of
.Cm ksh 1
or
.Cm ied 1.
.hpe
This option is provided for use with the
.Cm emacs
command-line editor mode of
.Cm ksh 1.
It conflicts with the
normal meta key use for generating extended single byte
characters and for generating multi-byte Asian characters.
.LI \f3logging\fP
.br
Enables output logging.
When logging is enabled, all
output received from the subprocess is logged either to a file or to a
command pipeline (as specified via the
.B logFile
option).
Since the data is logged directly from the subprocess, it includes all
escape characters and
carriage-returns and newline pairs
the terminal line discipline sends.
Logging may be enabled and disabled via escape sequences.
.LI \f3logFile\fP
.br
Specifies the filename to which
.Cm dtterm
writes the output log.
If the filename begins with a pipe symbol
(\||\|),
.Cm dtterm
assumes
the rest of the string is a command to be used as the
endpoint of a pipe.
The default filename is
.B DttermLog \c
.I XXXXX
(where
.I XXXXX
is a unique value)
and is created in the directory from which the subprocess
was started.
.LI \f3logInhibit\fP
.br
Indicates that
.Cm dtterm
inhibit device and file logging.
.LI \f3loginShell\fP
.br
.cdes
Indicates that the shell that is started be a login
shell (that is, the first character of
.IR argv [0]
is a dash), indicating
that the shell should read the system's
.B profile
and the user's
.B \&.profile
files
(for
.Cm ksh 1
and
.Cm sh 1)
or the system
.B csh.login
and the user's
.B \&.login
(for
.Cm csh 1).
.cdee
.xos
Indicates that the shell that is started be a login
shell (that is, the first character of
.IR argv [0]
is a dash), indicating
that the shell should read the system's
.B profile
and the user's
.B \&.profile
files
(for
.Cm ksh 1
and
.Cm sh 1).
.xoe
.LI \f3mapOnOutput\fP
.br
Indicates that the terminal emulator map
(de-iconify) itself upon subprocess output if it is unmapped (iconified).
The user can specify, via the
.B mapOnOutputDelay
resource,
an initial period of time during which
.Cm dtterm
does not map itself
upon subprocess output.
.LI \f3mapOnOutputDelay\fP
.br
Specifies the number of seconds after start-up that
.Cm dtterm
does not honor the
.B mapOnOutput
resource.
This allows the application to send
initial output (for example, shell prompts) to the terminal without
auto mapping the window.
The default is zero (no delay).
.LI \f3marginBell\fP
.br
Specifies whether or not the bell rings when the user types near
the right margin.
The distance from the right margin is specified by
the
.B nMarginBell
resource.
.LI \f3menuBar\fP
.br
Indicates that
.Cm dtterm
displays a pulldown menu bar.
The
default is True.
.LI \f3menuPopup\fP
.br
Indicates that
.Cm dtterm
displays a popup menu.
The
default is True.
.LI \f3nMarginBell\fP
.br
Specifies the number of characters from the right margin at which the
margin bell rings, when enabled.
.LI \f3pointerBlank\fP
.br
Specifies that
.Cm dtterm
puts the pointer cursor into blanking mode.
In this mode, the cursor turns on when the pointer
is moved, and is blanked after a selectable number of
seconds or after keyboard input.
The
.B pointerBlankDelay
resource sets the delay.
.LI \f3pointerBlankDelay\fP
.br
Specifies the number of seconds to wait after the pointer
has stopped moving before blanking the pointer (see
.BR pointerBlank ).
A value of zero delays pointer blanking until a key is pressed.
.LI \f3pointerColor\fP
.br
Specifies the foreground color
used by
.Cm dtterm
for the terminal
window's pointer (X11) cursor.
The default is the terminal window's foreground color (see
.BR foreground ).
.LI \f3pointerColorBackground\fP
.br
Specifies the background color
used by
.Cm dtterm
for the terminal
window's pointer (X11) cursor.
The default is the terminal window's background color (see
.BR background ).
.LI \f3pointerShape\fP
.br
Specifies the X cursor font character
used by
.Cm dtterm
as the
pointer cursor.
The font character must be specified as a string from the
.Hd X11/cursorfont.h
header with the leading
.B XC_
removed.
The default is
.Cm xterm 1X.
.LI \f3reverseWrap\fP
.br
Specifies whether or not reverse-wraparound is
enabled.
.LI \f3saveLines\fP
.br
Specifies the number of lines in the terminal buffer beyond the
length of the window.
The option value consists of a number followed by
an optional suffix.
If no suffix is included or the suffix is ``l'' (ell), the
total length of the terminal buffer is
.I screens
plus the length of
the terminal window.
If the suffix is ``s'' (ess) the total length of the
terminal buffer is (\c
.IR screens +1)
times the length of the terminal window.
The
.Cm dtterm
utility attempts to maintain the same buffer-to-window
ratio when the window is resized larger.
.LI \f3scrollBar\fP
.br
Specifies that
.Cm dtterm
displays a scroll bar.
.LI \f3sunFunctionKeys\fP
.br
Specifies whether
.Cm dtterm
generates Sun Function Key escape sequences instead of
.cde standard ANSI escape sequences
.xo the escape sequences described in
.xo .cX dtterm.5
for the terminal's function keys.
.xo See
.xo .cX sunfunckeys
.xo for a description of the Sun Function Key escape sequences.
.LI \f3termId\fP
.br
Supplies the name used to select the correct response to
terminal ID queries.
Valid values are
.BR vt100 ,
.BR vt101 ,
.BR vt102 ,
and
.BR vt220 .
.LI \f3termName\fP
.br
Specifies a name to which
.Cm dtterm
sets the
.I TERM
environment variable.
The default is
.Cm dtterm .
.LI \f3title\fP
.br
Specifies the window title.
When used with the
.B \-e
option, the default
is the last component of the program's path;
otherwise,
the default is the last component of the name
used to execute
.Cm dtterm
(that is,
.IR argv [0]).
.LI \f3ttyModes\fP
.br
Specifies a string containing terminal-setting keywords
and the characters to which they can be bound.
Allowable keywords include:
.BR intr ,
.BR quit ,
.BR erase ,
.BR kill ,
.BR eof ,
.BR eol ,
.BR swtch ,
.BR start ,
.BR stop ,
.BR brk ,
.BR susp ,
.BR dsusp ,
.BR rprnt ,
.BR flush ,
.B weras
and
.BR lnext .
The terminal emulator
correctly parses and silently ignores keywords that do not apply
to a specific architecture.
Control characters can be specified as
.BI ^ char
(for example,
.B ^c
or
.BR ^u ),
and
.B ^?
can be used to indicate Delete.
.cdes
This is useful for overriding the default
terminal settings without having to do an
.Cm stty 1
every time a DtTerm widget is created.
.cdee
.LI \f3userBoldFont\fP
.br
Specifies an
.B XFontSet
used by
.Cm dtterm
when displaying bold
terminal text.
The
.B XFontSet
should be specified as a Motif
.cde .BR XmFontList 3X.
.xo .BR XmFontList .
The terminal emulator supports only character or mono-spaced fonts.
When using proportional fonts, the behavior is undefined.
The terminal emulator generates a default bold font based on the
.B XLFD
name of the
.BR userFont .
If that font is not available,
.Cm dtterm
generates bold text
by overstriking (with a one pixel offset) the
.BR userFont .
.LI \f3userFont\fP
.br
Specifies an
.B XFontSet
used by
.Cm dtterm
when displaying terminal text.
.B XFontSet
should be specified as a Motif
.cde .BR XmFontList 3X.
.xo .BR XmFontList .
The terminal emulator supports only character or mono-spaced fonts.
When using proportional fonts, the behavior is undefined.
This font is not used
to display non-terminal text (such as menu bar, popup menu and dialog).
The default is the
.B XmNtextFontList
value of the parent bulletin board
(see the XmBulletinBoard widget)
in the same manner as the XmText widget.
.LI \f3visualBell\fP
.br
Indicates that a visual bell is preferred over an audible one.
Instead of ringing the terminal bell whenever a <control>\(hyG is
received, the window is flashed.
.LE
.HU "Resource/Option Correspondence"
Many of the preceding resources correspond to the command-line arguments.
The following table describes the relationship between the two:
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3
lf3w(3c)	lf3w(3c) .
Command-line option	Resource Setting
_
\-132	*c132: True
\+132	*c132: False
\-aw	*autoWrap: True
\+aw	*autoWrap: False
\-background \f2background_color\fP	*background: \f2background_color\fP
\-bd \f2border_color\fP	*borderColor: \f2border_color\fP
\-bg \f2background_color\fP	*background: \f2background_color\fP
\-bordercolor \f2border_color\fP	*borderColor: \f2border_color\fP
\-borderwidth \f2border_width\fP	.borderWidth: \f2border_width\fP
\-bs	*backgroundIsSelect: True
\+bs	*backgroundIsSelect: False
\-bw \f2border_width\fP	.borderWidth: \f2border_width\fP
\-C	*consoleMode: True
\-display \f2display_name\fP	.display: \f2display_name\fP
\-e \f2program_argument...\fP
\-fb \f2fontset\fP	*userBoldFont: \f2fontset\fP
\-fg \f2foreground_color\fP	*foreground: \f2foreground_color\fP
\-fn \f2fontset\fP	*userFont: \f2fontset\fP
\-font \f2fontset\fP	*userFont: \f2fontset\fP
\-foreground \f2foreground_color\fP	*foreground: \f2foreground_color\fP
\-geometry \f2geometry_string\fP	.geometry: \f2geometry_string\fP
\-iconic	.iconic: True
\+iconic	.iconic: False
\-j	*jumpScroll: True
\+j	*jumpScroll: False
\-kshMode	*kshMode: True
\+kshMode	*kshMode: False
\-l	*logging: True
\+l	*logging: False
\-lf \f2file_name\fP	*logFile: \f2file_name\fP
\-ls	*loginShell: True
\+ls	*loginShell: False
\-map	*mapOnOutput: True
\+map	*mapOnOutput: False
\-mb	*marginBell: True
\+mb	*marginBell: False
\-ms \f2pointer_color\fP	*pointerColor: \f2pointer_color\fP
\-name \f2prog_name\fP	.name: \f2prog_name\fP
\-nb \f2number\fP	*nMarginBell: \f2number\fP
\-rw	*reverseWrap: True
\+rw	*reverseWrap: False
\-sb	*scrollBar: True
\+sb	*scrollBar: False
\-sf	*sunFunctionKeys: True
\+sf	*sunFunctionKeys: False
\-sl \f2screens\fPs	*saveLines: \f2screens\fP * lines/screen
\-sl \f2lines\fP	*saveLines: \f2lines\fP
\-ti \f2term_id\fP	*termId: \f2term_id\fP
\-title \f2title_string\fP	.title: \f2title_string\fP
\-tm \f2term_modes\fP	*ttyModes: \f2term_modes\fP
\-tn \f2term_name\fP	*termName: \f2term_name\fP
\-vb	*visualBell: True
\+vb	*visualBell: False
\-w \f2border_width\fP	.borderWidth: \f2border_width\fP
.TE
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
.xo Default.
.cde The
.cde .Cm dtterm
.cde utility takes the standard action for all signals.
.SH STDOUT
Not used.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.VL 4 0 1
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
successful completion
.LI >0
an error occurred
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Hd Dt/Term 5,
.cdes
.Cm stty 1,
.Cm dtterm 5,
.Cm X 1X,
.BR XmFontList (3X),
.IR XmText (3X),
.Cm pty 7,
.Cm tty 7.
.cdee
.xos
.IR XmBulletinBoard ,
.I XmText
in the \*(ZM;
.Fn XrmParseCommand 3X,
.Fn XGetDefault 3X
in the \*(Zl.
.xoe
