.TH dtterm 1 "21 Apr 1994"
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
dtterm \- Cde terminal emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
dtterm
[\-options]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3dtterm\fP
client provides run time support of legacy applications
written for \f3ANSI X3.64-1979\fP and \f3ISO 6429:1992(E)\fP 
conformant character terminals such as the \f3DEC VT220\fP.
.P
The \f3dtterm\fP
client does not provide full \f3DEC VT220\fP terminal functionality.
The following \f3VT220\fP functionality is
not supported:
.VL 6
.LI \f3DECDWL\fP
Double-width, single-height text is not supported.
.LI \f3DECDHL\fP
Double-width, double-height text is not supported.
.LE
.P
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-132\fP
Normally, \f3dtterm\fP ignores the \f3DECCOLM\fP escape sequence that
switches between 80 and 132 column mode.
This option causes \f3dtterm\fP to recognize the \f3DECCOLM\fP
escape sequence, and the \f3dtterm\fP window resizes appropriately.
.P
.LI \f3\+132\fP
This option causes \f3dterm\fP to ignore the \f3DECCOLM\fP escape sequence.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\-aw\fP
This option indicates that \f3dtterm\fP allows auto-wraparound.
This allows the cursor to automatically wrap to the beginning of the next
line when it is at the right-most position of a line and text is output.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\+aw\fP
This option indicates that \f3dtterm\fP does not allow auto-wraparound.
.P
.LI "\f3\-background\fP \f2background_color\fP"
This option specifies the background of the
terminal window as well as the default background \f3dtterm\fP uses for the
scroll bar and the X11 pointer cursor.
Under
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde, 
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE
this option defaults to either the primary colorset
background
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
(default) or select
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.\" (default)
pixel (see \f3\-bs\fP).
Without
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE
this option defaults to \f3*background/*Background\fP with an ultimate
fall back color of black.
.P
\f2background_color\fP  -  Describes the background color \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-bd\fP \f2border_color\fP"
This option specifies the border color for all windows.
The shell widget's window border may not be visible when re-parenting window 
managers such as
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.Cm dtwm(1)
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" \f3vuewm(1X)\fP
and
.Cm mwm(1X)
are used.
The default is the color black.
.P
\f2border_color\fP - Describes the border color \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-bg\fP \f2background_color\fP"
This option is identical to \f3\-background\fP.
.P
\f2background_color\fP - Describes the background color \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-bordercolor\fP \f2border_color\fP"
This option is identical to \f3\-bd\fP.
.P
\f2border_color\fP - Describes the border color \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-borderwidth\fP \f2border_width\fP"
This option specifies the border width of the shell widget's window.
This value may be overriden by re-parenting window managers such as
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.Cm dtwm 1
and
.Cm mwm 1X.
The default is 0.
.P
\f2border_width\fP - Specifies the width of the window border in pixels.
.P
.LI \f3\-bs\fP
This option specifies that the terminal window uses the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color.
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.\" This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\+bs\fP
This option specifies that the terminal window not use the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color.
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI "\f3\-bw\fP \f2border_width\fP"
This option is identical to \f3-borderwidth\fP above.
.P
\f2border_width\fP - Specifies the width of the window border in pixels.
.P
.LI \f3\-C\fP
This option specifies that output directed at 
\f3/dev/console\fP
be directed instead to the terminal window.
It is provided as a way to prevent output that would normally be displayed on the
ITE from stepping on the X server's display.
It is not provided as a general purpose mechanism to direct the output from
an arbitrary system's \f3/dev/console \fP to an arbitrary X server.
Ownership of, and read-write permission for, \f3/dev/console \fP
is required to redirect console output.
The default is False.
.P
.LI "\f3\-display\fP \f2display_name\fP"
This option specifies the X11 display server \f3dtterm\fP uses.
This defaults to the \f3DISPLAY\fP environment variable.
.P
\f2display_name\fP - Specifies the X11 display \f3dtterm\fP connects to.
.P
.LI "\f3\-e \fP \f2program_argument ...\fP"
This option specifies an executable program and any command line arguments
\f3dtterm\fP invokes as a subprocess when \f3dtterm\fP is started.
It must be the last option on the command line.
.P
\f2program_argument ...\fP - Specifies the program \f3dtterm\fP executes and any command
line arguments.
.P
.LI "\f3\-fb\fP \f2fontset\fP"
This option specifies an \f3XFontSet\fP \f3dtterm\fP uses when displaying bold terminal
text.
The \f3XFontSet\fP should be specified as a Motif
.Fn XmFontList 3X.
The terminal emulator supports only character- or mono-spaced fonts.
The behavior, when using proportional fonts, is undefined.
The terminal emulator generates a default bold font based on the \f3XLFD\fP
name of the \f3userFont\fP.
If that font is not available, \f3dtterm\fP generates bold text
by overstriking (with a one pixel offset) the \f3userFont\fP.
.P
\f2fontset\fP - Specifies the bold terminal \f3XFontSet\fP \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-fg\fP \f2foreground_color\fP"
This option specifies the foreground color of the terminal window as
well as the default foreground color \f3dtterm\fP uses for the scroll bar and the
for the X11 pointer cursor.
Under
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE,
this option defaults to the 
primary color set foreground pixel.
Without
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE,
this option defaults to \f3*foreground\fP/\f3*Foreground\fP 
with an ultimate fall back color of white.
.P
\f2foreground_color\fP - Specifies the foreground color \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-fn\fP \f2fontset\fP"
This option specifies an \f3XFontSet\fP to be used when displaying terminal text.
It should be specified as a Motif
.Fn XmFontList 3X.
Only character- or mono-spaced fonts are supported.
The behavior, when using proportional fonts, is undefined.
This font is not used to display non-terminal text (such as menu bar, popup menus, 
or dialogs).
The default uses the \f3XmNtextFontList\fP value of the parent bulletin 
board (see
.Fn XmBulletinBoard 3X)
in the same manner as the
.Fn XmText 3X
widget.
.P
\f2fontset\fP - Specifies the terminal \f3XFontSet\fP \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-font\fP \f2fontset\fP"
This option is identical to \f3\-fn\fP above.
.P
\f2fontset\fP - Specifies the terminal \f3XFontSet\fP \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-foreground\fP \f2foreground_color\fP"
This option is identical to \f3\-fg\fP above.
.P
\f2foreground_color\fP - Specifies the foreground color \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-geometry\fP \f2geometry_string\fP"
This option
specifies the terminal window's preferred size and position.
Width and height are expressed in characters.
The default size is 24 lines of 80 characters each.
There is no default position.
.P
\f2geometry_string\fP - Specifies the terminal geometry \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI \f3\-help\fP
Displays a message summarizing \f3dtterm\fP usage.
.LI \f3\-iconic\fP
This option specifies that the terminal emulator initially be displayed in an
iconified state.
.P
.LI \f3\+iconic\fP
This option specifies that the terminal emulator initially be displayed
as a normal window.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\-j\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP uses jump scrolling.
Under jump scrolling, the screen may be scrolled more than one line at a time.
This provides for faster screen updates when multiple lines of text are sent to the terminal.
The maximum number of lines that may be
jump scrolled is limited to the number of lines in the terminal window.
The termminal emulator guarantees that all lines are displayed.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\+j\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP not use jump scrolling.
.LI \f3\-kshMode\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP enable ksh mode.
Under ksh
mode, a key pressed with the extend modifier bit set generates an
escape character followed by the character generated by the un-extended
keystroke.
This option is provided to use with emacs and the emacs
command line editor mode of
.Cm ksh 1
or
.Cm ied 1.
This option conflicts with the
normal meta key use for generating extended single byte
characters and for generating multi-byte Asian characters.
.P
.LI \f3\+kshMode\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP not enable ksh mode.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\-l\fP
This option enables output logging.
When \f3dtterm\fP enables logging, all output received from the subprocess is 
logged either to a file or to a command pipeline (as specified via the \f3\-lf\fP 
option described below).
Since data are logged directly from the subprocess, the log file includes
all escape characters and carriage return/new line pairs the terminal
line discipline sends.
The appllication may enable and disable logging via escape sequences.
.P
.LI \f3\+l\fP
This option disables output logging.
This is the default.
.P
.LI "\f3\-lf\fP \f2file_name\fP"
This option specifies file name to which \f3dtterm\fP writes
output logging (described above).
If the filename begins with a pipe symbol
(``\f3|\fP''), \f3dtterm\fP assumes the rest of the string to be a command
to be used as the endpoint of a pipe.
If the filename ends in \f3XXXXX\fP, 
the last 5 characters will be replaced with the process ID of \f3dtterm\fP.
The default filename is \f3DttermLogXXXXX\fP
and is created in the directory
from which the subprocess was started.
.P
\f2file_name\fP - Specifies the log file name \f3dtterm\fP uses for logging.
.P
.LI \f3\-ls\fP
This option indicates that the shell that is started be a login
shell (that is, the first character of \f3argv[0]\fP
be a dash), indicating
to the shell that it read the system's \f3profile\fP
and the user's \f3.profile\fP
(for
.Cm ksh 1
and
.Cm sh 1,
or the system's \f3csh.login\fP and the user's \f3.login\fP 
(for
.Cm csh 1.
.P
.LI \f3\+ls\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP starts a normal (non-login) shell.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI \f3\-map\fP
This option indicates that \f3dtterm\fP map
(de-iconify) itself upon subprocess output if it is unmapped (iconified).
The user may specify, via the \f3mapOnOutputDelay\fP resource (described below),
an initial period of time during which \f3dtterm\fP does not map itself upon
subprocess output.
.P
.LI \f3\+map\fP
This option indicates there is no special mapping behavior.
This is the default.
.P
.LI \f3\-mb\fP
This option specifies that the bell rings
when the user types at a specified distance from the right margin.
The distance from the
right margin is specified by the \f3\-nb\fP option (described below).
.P
.LI \f3\+mb\fP
This option specifies that the bell not ring
when the user types near the right margin.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI "\f3\-ms\fP \f2pointer_color\fP"
This option specifies the foreground color \f3dtterm\fP uses for the terminal
window's (X11) pointer cursor.
The default is the terminal
window's foreground color (see \f3\-foreground\fP above).
.P
\f2pointer_color\fP - This option specifies the pointer foreground color \f3dtterm\fP
uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-name\fP \f2prog_name\fP"
Specifies the X11 name of the \f3dtterm\fP window.
.P
\f2prog_name\fP - Specifies the name to use.
.P
.LI "\f3\-nb\fP \f2number\fP"
This option specifies the number of characters from the right
margin at which the margin bell rings, when enabled.
The default is 10.
.P
\f2number\fP - Specifies the number of characters.
.P
.LI \f3\-rw\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP enables reverse-wraparound.
.P
.LI \+rw
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP does not enable reverse-wraparound.
This is the default.
.P
.LI "\f3\-S\fP \f2ccn\fP"
This option specifies that the terminal emulator is run against a
pre-opened pty or STREAMS device.
The terminal emulator provides this option to use where the pty or STREAMS device
name is of the form \f3tty??\fP (that is, exactly two characters following the 
\f3``tty''\fP).
This option is intended for use when \f3dtterm\fP is invoked
programatically from within another application.
.P
\f2cc\fP - Specifies the last two characters of the pty or STREAMS device's
slave name where the pty
slave name is of the form ``\f(CWtty??\fP''.
This value is ignored, but must be exactly two characters in length.
.P
.LI \f3n\fP
Specifies the number of the file descriptor that corresponds to the pty or STREAMS
device's already opened master side.
.P
.LI "\f3\-S\fP \f2c . n\fP"
This option is identical to \f3\-S\fP\f2ccn\fP above,
but is provided for systems with a larger pty or STREAMS device name space.
.P
\f2c\fP - Specifies the last component of the pty or STREAMS device slave name.
The terminal emulator ignores this value and the value may be empty.
.P
\f2n\fP - Specifies the number of the file descriptor that corresponds to the pty or STREAMS device's
already opened master side.
.P
.LI \f3\-sb\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP display a scroll bar.
This is the default.
.P
.LI \f3\+sb\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP not display a scroll bar.
.P
.LI \f3\-sf\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP generate Sun Function Key escape codes
instead of standard VT220 escape sequences for the terminal's function keys.
.P
.LI \f3\+sf\fP
This option specifies that \f3dtterm\fP generate standard VT220 escape sequences
instead of Sun Function Key escape codes for the terminal's function keys.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI "\f3\-sl\fP \f2screens\fP[\f3s|l\fP]"
This option specifies the number of lines in the terminal buffer beyond the
length of the window.
The option value consists of a number followed by
an optional suffix.
If no suffix is included or the suffix is ``l'' (ell), the
total length of the terminal buffer is \f2screens\fP plus the length of
the terminal window.
If the suffix is ``s'' (ess) the total length of the
terminal buffer is \f2screens\fP plus one times the length of the
terminal window.
The \f3dtterm\fP utility tries to maintain the same buffer-to-window
ratio when the window is resized larger.
The default is ``4s''.
.P
\f2screens\fP - Specifies the number of screens or lines to save.
.P
.LI "\f3\-ti\fP \f2term_id\fP"
This option supplies the name \f3dtterm\fP uses to select the correct response to
terminal ID queries.
Valid values are \f3vt100\fP, \f3vt101\fP,
\f3vt102\fP, and \f3vt220\fP.
The default is \f3vt220\fP.
.P
\f2term_id\fP - Specifies the terminal ID to use.
.P
.LI "\f3\-title\fP \f2title_string\fP"
This option specifies the window title.
If the user uses the \f3-e\fP option, the
default is the last component of the program's path.
If the user does not use the \f3-e\fP option, the default is the last
component of the name used to execute \f3dtterm\fP (that is, \f3argv[0]\fP).
.P
\f2title_string\fP - Specifies the title \f3dterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI "\f3\-tm\fP \f2term_modes\fP"
This option specifies a string containing terminal-setting keywords
and the characters to which they are to be bound.
Allowable keywords
include:  \f3intr\fP, \f3quit\fP, \f3erase\fP, \f3kill\fP, \f3eof\fP,
\f3eol\fP, \f3swtch\fP, \f3start\fP, \f3stop\fP, \f3brk\fP,
\f3susp\fP, \f3dsusp\fP, \f3rprnt\fP, \f3flush\fP, \f3weras\fP,
and \f3lnext\fP.
The terminal emulator correctly parses and silently ignores keywords that do not apply
to a specific architecture.
Control characters may be specified as \f3^\fP\f2char\fP (two characters, 
`\f3^\fP'
followed by \f2char\fP).
The character \f2char\fP is case insensitive.
Some examples are: \f3^c\fP, \f3^C\fP, \f3^u\fP, and \f3^U\fP.
\f3^?\fP may be used to indicate delete.
This is very useful for overridding the default terminal settings without having to
do an \f3stty(1)\fP 
every time a terminal process is started.
The default is 
.Cn NULL .
.P
\f2term_modes\fP - Specifies the terminal mode string.
.P
.LI "\f3\-tn\fP \f2term_name\fP"
This option specifies a name \f3dtterm\fP uses to set the \f3TERM\fP
environment variable to.
The default is \f3vt220\fP.
.P
\2term_name\fP - Specifies the terminal name \f3dtterm\fP uses.
.P
.LI \f3\-usage\fP
Prints a usage message on the screen.
.P
.LI \f3\-vb\fP
This option indicates that a visual bell is preferred over an audible one.
Instead of ringing the
terminal bell whenever a Control-G is received, the window is flashed.
.P
.LI \f3\+vb\fP
This option indicates that an audio bell is preferred over an visual one.
This is the default behavior.
.P
.LI "\f3\-w\fP \f2border_width\fP"
This option is identical to \f3\-borderwidth\fP above.
.P
\f2border_width\fP - Specifies the width of the window border in pixels.
.P
.LI "\f3\-xrm\fP \f2resource_string\fP"
This option allows the user to specify the X11 Resource Manager-style
resources on the command line.
See the X11 documentation for more information.
.P
\f2resource_string\fP - Specifies an X11 resource string.
.LE
.P
.SH RESOURCES
The \f3dtterm\fP client allows the user to specify behavior through X11 resources
as well as the command line interface.
Following is a list of the defined resources:
.HU "The \f3dtterm\fP Client Resource Set"
.TS
center, expand;
cf3	cf3	cf3	cf3
lf3w(2c) lf3w(2c) lf3w(1c) lf3w(2c) .
Name	Class	Type	Default
_
allowSendEvents	AllowSendEvents	Boolean	False
appCursorDefault	AppCursorDefault	Boolean	False
appKeypadDefault	AppKeypadDefault	Boolean	False
autoWrap	AutoWrap	Boolean	True
background	Background	String
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
backgroundIsSelect	BackgroundIsSelect	Boolean	False
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" backgroundIsSelect	BackgroundIsSelect	Boolean	True
blinkRate	BlinkRate	int	250
borderColor	BorderColor	String	``\f3black\fP''
borderWidth	BorderWidth	int	0
c132	C132	Boolean	True
charCursorStyle	CharCursorStyle	String	``\f3charcursor_box\fP''
consoleMode	ConsoleMode	Boolean	False
foreground	Foreground	String
geometry	Geometry	String	NULL
halfBrightInhibit	HalfBrightInhibit	Boolean	False
iconic	Iconic	Boolean	False
iconName	IconName	String	``\f3dtterm\fP''
jumpScroll	JumpScroll	Boolean	True
kshMode	KshMode	Boolean	False
logging	Logging	Boolean	False
logFile	LogFile	String	``\f3DttermLogXXXXX\fP''
logInhibit	LogInhibit	Boolean	False
loginShell	LoginShell	Boolean	False
mapOnOutput	AutoMap	Boolean	False
mapOnOutputDelay	MapDelay	int	0
marginBell	MarginBell	Boolean	False
menu	Menu	Boolean	True
nMarginBell	NMarginBell	int	10
pointerBlank	PointerBlank	Boolean	False
pointerBlankDelay	PointerBlankDelay	int	2
pointerColor	Foreground	String	foreground color
pointerColorBackground	Background	String	background color
pointerShape	PointerShape	String	``\f3xterm\fP''
reverseWrap	ReverseWrap	Boolean	False
saveLines	SaveLines	String	``4s''
scrollBar	ScrollBar	Boolean	True
sunFunctionKeys	SunFunctionKeys	Boolean	False
termId	TermId	String	``\f3vt220\fP''
termName	TermName	String	``\f3vt220\fP''
title	Title	String	``\f3dtterm\fP''
ttyModes	TtyModes	String	NULL
userBoldFont	UserBoldFont	XmFontList	dynamic
userFont	UserFont	XmFontList	dynamic
visualBell	VisualBell	Boolean	False
.TE
.P
.VL 6
.LI \f3allowSendEvents\fP
This resource specifies that the terminal emulator allow
synthetic events (generated and sent by another application).
Enabling this resource opens up a possible security hole.
The default is False.
.LI \f3appCursorDefault\fP
If True, the cursor keys are initially in application mode.
If False, the cursor keys are initially in cursor mode.
The default
is False.
.LI \f3appKeypadDefault\fP
If True, the keypad keys are initially in application mode.
If False, the keypad keys are initially in numeric mode.
The default
is False.
.LI \f3autoWrap\fP
This resource specifies whether or not auto-wraparound is initially
enabled.  The default is True.
.LI \f3background\fP
This resource specifies the
background color of the terminal window as well as the default background
color for the
scroll bar.
Under
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE,
this resource defaults to either the primary
color set background
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
(default)
or select
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" (default)
pixel (see
\f3backgroundIsSelect\fP).
Without
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE,
this resource defaults to black.
.LI \f3backgroundIsSelect\fP
This resource specifies that the terminal window should use the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color.  The default is False.
.LI \f3blinkRate\fP
This resource specifies the number of milliseconds the cursor is in the
``on'' and ``off'' states while blinking.
A 250 value blinks the cursor two times per second.
A 0 value turns blinking off.
The default is 250.
.LI \f3borderColor\fP
This resource specifies the border color for the window.
The window border
may not be visible when re-parenting window managers such as
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.Cm dtwm 1X
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" \f3vuewm(1X)\fP
and
.Cm mwm 1X
are used.
The default is black.
.LI \f3borderWidth\fP
This resource specifies the border width of the shell widget's window.
This value may be overridden by re-parenting window managers such as
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.Cm dtwm 1X
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" \f3vuewm(1X)\fP
and 
.Cm mwm 1X.
The default is 0.
.LI \f3c132\fP
This resource specifies whether or not the \f3DECCOLM\fP escape sequence that
switches between a 132 and 80 column window is honored.
The default is False.
.LI \f3charCursorStyle\fP
This resource specifies the shape of the text cursor.
A
.Cn charcursor_box
value specifies a cursor the width and height of the base
font's bounding box.
A
.Cn charcursor_bar
value specifies a cursor the
width of the base font's bounding box, 2 pixels high, and drawn with its
top on the baseline.
.\" DS - do we need to mention charcursor_invisible here????????
The default is
.Cn charcursor_box .
.LI \f3consoleMode\fP
This resource specifies that output directed at \f3/dev/console\fP
be directed instead to the terminal window.
It is provided as a way to
prevent output that would normally be displayed on the ITE from stepping
on the X server's display.
It is not provided as a general mechanism to
direct the output from an arbitrary system's 
\f3/dev/console\fP
to an arbitrary X server.
Ownership of, and read-write permission for,
\f3/dev/console\fP
is required to redirect console output.
The default is False.
.LI \f3foreground\fP
This resource specifies the foreground of the terminal window as well as
the default \f3dtterm\fP uses for the scroll bar and the color used for the pointer
cursor.
Under
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE,
this resource defaults to the primary
color set foreground pixel.
Without
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal Cde string:
Cde,
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" HPVUE,
this resource defaults to
white.
.LI \f3geometry\fP
This resource specifies the terminal window's preferred size and position.
The default size is 24 lines of 80 characters each.
There is no default position.
.LI \f3halfBrightInhibit\fP
This resource specifies that \f3dtterm\fP not allocate or use half-bright colors
when displaying characters with the faint graphics rendition set.
In this mode \f3dtterm\fP allocates fewer read-only cells from the color map.
The default is False.
.LI \f3iconGeometry\fP
This resource specifies the preferred position of the terminal
emulator's icon.
Window managers (including
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal CDE string:
.Cm dtwm 1
.\" !!!! normal VUE string:
.\" .Cm vuewm 1X
and 
.Cm mwm 1X 
may ignore this value.
There is no default.
.LI \f3iconic\fP
This resource specifies whether or not the terminal emulator is initially
displayed in an iconified state.
The default is False.
.LI \f3iconName\fP
This resource specifies the name for the icon.
If the user uses \f3\-e\fP option, the default
is the last component of the program's path.
If the user does not use \f3\-e\fP option, the default is
the last component of the name
used to execute \f3dtterm\fP (that is, \f3argv[0]\fP).
.LI \f3jumpScroll\fP
This resource specifies that \f3dtterm\fP use jump scrolling.
Under jump
scrolling, the screen may be scrolled more than one line at a time.
This provides for faster screen updates when multiple lines of text are
sent to the terminal.
The maximum number of lines that may be
jump scrolled is limited to the number of lines in the terminal window.
The terminal emulator guarantees that all lines are displayed.
The default is True.
.LI \f3kshMode\fP
This resource enables ksh mode.
Under ksh
mode, a key pressed with the extend modifier bit set generates an
escape character followed by the character generated by the un-extended
keystroke.
This option is provided for use with emacs and the emacs
command line editor mode of
.Cm ksh 1 or
.Cm ied 1.
It conflicts with the
normal meta key use for generating extended single byte
characters and for generating multi-byte Asian characters.
The default
is False.
.LI \f3logging\fP
This resource enables output logging.
When logging is enabled, all
output received from the subprocess is logged either to a file or to a
command pipeline (as specified via the \f3logFile\fP option
below).
Since the data is logged directly from the subprocess, it includes all escape characters
and carriage return / new line pairs the terminal line discipline sends.
Logging may be enabled and disabled via escape sequences.
The default is False.
.LI \f3logFile\fP
This resource specifies the filename \f3dtterm\fP uses to write the output logging
(described above) to.
If the filename begins with a pipe symbol
(\f3|\fP), \f3dtterm\fP assumes 
the rest of the string is a command to be used as the
endpoint of a pipe.
If the filename ends in \f3XXXXX\fP , 
the
last 5 characters are replaced with the \f3dtterm\fP's process ID.
The default filename is \f3DttermLogXXXXX\fP
and is created in the directory from which the subprocess
was started.
.LI \f3logInhibit\fP
This resource indicates that \f3dtterm\fP inhibit device and file logging.
The default is False.
.LI \f3loginShell\fP
This resource indicates that the shell that is started be a login
shell (that is, the first character of \f3argv[0] \fP
is a dash, indicating
that the shell should read the system's \f3profile\fP
and the user's \f3.profile \fP (for \f3ksh\fP and \f3sh\fP)
or the system \f3csh.login \fP and the user's \f3.login \fP
(for \f3csh\fP)).
The default is False.
.LI \f3mapOnOutput\fP
This resource indicates that the terminal emulator map
(de-iconify) itself upon subprocess output if it is unmapped (iconified).
The user may specify, via the \f3mapOnOutputDelay\fP resource (described below),
an initial period of time during which \f3dtterm\fP does not map itself
upon subprocess output.
The default is False.
.LI \f3mapOnOutputDelay\fP
This resource specifies the number of seconds after start-up that \f3dtterm\fP
does not honor the \f3mapOnOutput\fP resource (described above).
This allows the application to send
initial output (for example, shell prompts) to the terminal without
auto mapping the window.
The default is 0 (no delay).
.LI \f3marginBell\fP
This resource specifies whether or not the bell rings when the user types near
the right margin.
The distance from the right margin is specified by
the \f3nMarginBell\fP resource (described below).
The default is False.
.LI \f3menu\fP
This resource indicates that \f3dtterm\fP display a pulldown menu bar.
The
default is True.
.LI \f3nMarginBell\fP
This resource specifies the number of characters from the right margin at which the
margin bell rings, when enabled.
The default is 10.
.LI \f3pointerBlank\fP
This resource indicates that \f3dtterm\fP put the pointer cursor into
blanking mode.
In this mode, the cursor turns on when the pointer
is moved, and is blanked either after a selectable number of
seconds or after keyboard input.
The \f3pointerBlankDelay\fP resource (described below) sets the delay.
The default is False.
.LI \f3pointerBlankDelay\fP
This resource specifies the number of seconds to wait after the pointer
has stopped moving before blanking the pointer (see \f3pointerBlank\fP above).
A 0 value delays pointer blanking until a key is pressed.
The default is 2 seconds.
.LI \f3pointerColor\fP
This resource specifies the foreground color \f3dtterm\fP uses for the terminal
window's pointer (X11) cursor.
The default is the terminal window's foreground color (see \f3foreground\fP above).
.LI \f3pointerColorBackground\fP
This resource specifies the background color \f3dtterm\fP uses for the terminal
window's pointer (X11) cursor.
The default is the terminal window's background color (see \f3background\fP above).
.LI \f3pointerShape\fP
This resource specifies the X cursor font character \f3dtterm\fP uses as the
pointer cursor.
The font character should be specified as a string from the include file \f3<X11/cursorfont.h>\fP
with the leading \f3\s-1XC_\s0\fP removed.
The default is \f3xterm\fP.
.LI \f3reverseWrap\fP
This resource specifies whether or not reverse-wraparound is
enabled.
The default is False.
.LI \f3saveLines\fP
This resource specifies the number lines in the terminal buffer beyond the
length of the window.
This resource value consists of a number followed by
an options suffix.
If no suffix is included or the suffix is ``l'' (ell), the
total length of the terminal buffer is \f2screens\fP plus the length of
the terminal window.
If the suffix is ``s'' (ess) the total length of the
terminal buffer is (\f2screens\fP plus one) times the length of the
terminal window.
The \f3dtterm\fP utility tries to maintain the same buffer-to-window
ratio when the window is resized larger.
The default is ``4s''.
.LI \f3scrollBar\fP
This resources indicates that \f3dtterm\fP displaya scroll bar.
The default is False.
.LI \f3sunFunctionKeys\fP
This resource specifies whether or not \f3dtterm\fP generates Sun Function Key
escape codes instead of standard VT220 escape
sequences for the terminal's function keys.
The default is False.
.LI \f3termId\fP
This resource supplies the name used to select the correct response to
terminal ID queries.
Valid values are \f3vt100\fP, \f3vt101\fP, \f3vt102\fP, and
\f3vt220\fP.
The default is \f3vt220\fP.
.LI \f3termName\fP
This resource specifies a name \f3dtterm\fP sets the \f3TERM\fP environment variable to.
The default is \f3vt220\fP.
.LI \f3title\fP
This resource specifies the window title.
If the uses uses the \f3\-e\fP option, the
default is the last component of the program's path.
If the user does not use the \f3\-e\fP
option, the default is the last component of the name
used to execute \f3dtterm\fP (that is, \f3argv[0]\fP).
.LI \f3ttyModes\fP
This resource specifies a string containing terminal-setting keywords
and the characters to which they are to be bound.
Allowable keywords
include:  \f3intr\fP, \f3quit\fP, \f3erase\fP, \f3kill\fP, \f3eof\fP, \f3eol\fP, 
\f3swtch\fP, \f3start\fP, \f3stop\fP, \f3brk\fP,
\f3susp\fP, \f3dsusp\fP, \f3rprnt\fP, \f3flush\fP, \f3weras\fP, and \f3lnext\fP.
The terminal emulator correctly parses and silently ignores keywords that
do not apply to a specific architecture.
Control characters may be specified as \f3^\fP\f2char\fP (two characters, 
`\f3^\fP'
followed by \f2char\fP).
The character \f2char\fP is case insensitive.
Some examples are: ``\f3^c\fP'', ``\f3^C\fP'', ``\f3^u\fP'', and ``\f3^U\fP''.
``\f3^?\fP'' may be used to indicate delete.
This is useful for overriding the
default terminal settings without having to do an \f3stty \fP
every time a terminal process is started.
The default is
.Cn NULL .
.LI \f3userBoldFont\fP
This resource specifies an \f3XFontSet\fP \f3dtterm\fP uses when displaying bold
terminal text.
It should be specified as a Motif
.Fn XmFontList 3X.
The terminal emulator supports only character- or mono-spaced fonts.
When using proportional fonts, the behavior is undefined.
The terminal emulator generates a default bold font based on the \f3XLFD\fP
name of the \f3userFont\fP.
If that font is not available, \f3dtterm\fP generates bold text
by overstriking (with a one pixel offset) the \f3userFont\fP.
.LI \f3userFont\fP
This resource specifies an \f3XFontSet\fP \f3dtterm\fP uses when displaying terminal
text.
\f3XFontSet\fP should be specified as a Motif
.Fn XmFontList 3X.
The terminal emulator supports only character- or mono-spaced fonts.
When using proportional fonts, the behavior is undefined.
This font is not used
to display non-terminal text (menu bar, popup menu, dialog, etc.).
The default is
the \f3XmNtextFontList\fP value of the parent bulletin board (see
.Fn XmBulletinBoard 3X)
in the same manner as the
.Fn XmText 3X
widget.
.LI \f3visualBellfP
This resource indicates that a visual bell is preferred over an audible
one.
Instead of ringing the terminal bell whenever a Control-G is
received, the window is flashed.
The default is False.
.LE
.P
.HU "Resource/Option Correspondence"
.P
Many of the above resources correspond to the command line arguments.
The following table describes the relationship between the two:
.HU "dtterm Resource/Option correspondence"
.TS
center;
cf3	cf3
lf3w(3c)	lf3w(3c) .
Command line option	Resource Setting
_
-132	*c132: True
+132	*c132: False
-aw	*autoWrap: True
+aw	*autoWrap: False
-background \f2background_color\fP	*background: \f2background_color\fP
-bd \f2border_color\fP	*borderColor: \f2border_color\fP
-bg \f2background_color\fP	*background: \f2background_color\fP
-bordercolor \f2border_color\fP	*borderColor: \f2border_color\fP
-borderwidth \f2border_width\fP	.borderWidth: \f2border_width\fP
-bs	*backgroundIsSelect: True
+bs	*backgroundIsSelect: False
-bw \f2border_width\fP	.borderWidth: \f2border_width\fP
-C	*consoleMode: True
-display \f2display_name\fP	.display: \f2display_name\fP
-e \f2program_argument...\fP
-fb \f2fontset\fP	*userBoldFont: \f2fontset\fP
-fg \f2foreground_color\fP	*foreground: \f2foreground_color\fP
-fn \f2fontset\fP	*userFont: \f2fontset\fP
-font \f2fontset\fP	*userFont: \f2fontset\fP
-foreground \f2foreground_color\fP	*foreground: \f2foreground_color\fP
-geometry \f2geometry_string\fP	.geometry: \f2geometry_string\fP
-iconic	.iconic: True
+iconic	.iconic: False
-j	*jumpScroll: True
+j	*jumpScroll: False
-kshMode	*kshMode: True
+kshMode	*kshMode: False
-l	*logging: True
+l	*logging: False
-lf \f2file_name\fP	*logFile: \f2file_name\fP
-ls	*loginShell: True
+ls	*loginShell: False
-map	*mapOnOutput: True
+map	*mapOnOutput: False
-mb	*marginBell: True
+mb	*marginBell: False
-ms \f2pointer_color\fP	*pointerColor: \f2pointer_color\fP
-name \f2prog_name\fP	.name: \f2prog_name\fP
-nb \f2number\fP	*nMarginBell: \f2number\fP
-rw	*reverseWrap: True
+rw	*reverseWrap: False
-sb	*scrollBar: True
+sb	*scrollBar: False
-sf	*sunFunctionKeys: True
+sf	*sunFunctionKeys: False
-sl \f2screens\fPs	*saveLines: \f2screens\fP * lines/screen
-sl \f2lines\fP	*saveLines: \f2lines\fP
-ti \f2term_id\fP	*termId: \f2term_id\fP
-title \f2title_string\fP	.title: \f2title_string\fP
-tm \f2term_modes\fP	*ttyModes: \f2term_modes\fP
-tn \f2term_name\fP	*termName: \f2term_name\fP
-vb	*visualBell: True
+vb	*visualBell: False
-w \f2border_width\fP	.borderWidth: \f2border_width\fP
.TE
.P
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.P
The terminal emulator recognizes the following environment variables:
.VL 6
.LI \f3XUSERFILESEARCHPATH\fP
The \f3XUSERFILESEARCHPATH\fP environment variable controls
where X applications look for their app-defaults resource files.
The default is located in the directory
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal motif path:
.\" \f3/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults\fP.
.\" !!!! normal CDE path:
\f3/usr/dt/app-defaults\fP.
You need to set \f3XUSERFILESEARCHPATH\fP if your resource
files are not in this location.
.LI \f3XFILESEARCHPATH\fP
The environment variable \f3XFILESEARCHPATH\fP may define a
language-dependent location of app-defaults.
.LI \f3XENVIRONMENT\fP
The user may specify any user and machine-specific resources by setting the
\f3XENVIRONMENT\fP environment variable to the name of a resource file
to be loaded by all applications.
If this variable is not defined, \f3dtterm\fP looks for a file named 
\f3$HOME/.Xdefaults-hostname\fP instead,
where hostname is the name of the host where the application is
executing.
.LI \f3XMODIFIER\fP
This environment variable allows the user to specify which input method to use.
.LI \f3LANG\fP
The user must set the \f3LANG\fP environment variable in order to use native
language support.
Setting \f3LANG\fP causes X to use the
language-sensitive routines for character handling.
.LI \f3NLSPATH\fP
The \f3NLSPATH\fP environment variable determines the paths
applications search for NLS message catalogs.
X clients place NLS message catalogs in the
.\" !!!! version/config dependent string
.\" !!!! normal pre-SVR5 path:
.\" \f3/usr/lib/nls/$LANG\fP
.\" !!!! normal CDE path:
\f3/usr/dt/lib/nls/$LANG\fP
directory.
The user must set both
\f3LANG\fP and \f3NLSPATH\fP in order to use
these message catalogs.
.LI \f3XAPPLRESDIR\fP
This environment variable allows the user to name a directory that
contains application specific resources.
If this environment variable
exists, and is set to an existing directory, then it is searched (in
addition to the standard locations) for files containing application
specific resource specifications.
.LI \f3HOME\fP
The terminal emulator uses this environment variable to
determine the location of configuration files.
.LI \f3SHELL\fP
Default application to run.
.LI \f3TERM\fP
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's \f3TERM\fP environment
variable to the \f3termName\fP resource value.
Applications use this variable to determine the type of escape sequences to use
when driving the terminal emulator.
.LI \f3LINES\fP
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's \f3LINES\fP
environment variable to the number of lines present in the terminal
window at creation.
If the size of the terminal window is subsequently
changed, the terminal emulator uses the \f3TIOCSWINSZ\fP ioctl to
inform the applications running against it of the new line count.
Under normal use, the user's shell updates
\f3LINES\fP with the updated value.
.LI \f3COLUMNS\fP
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's \f3COLUMNS\fP
environment variable to the number of columns present in the terminal
window at creation.
If the size of the terminal window is subsequently
changed the terminal emulator will use the \f3TIOCSWINSZ\fP ioctl to
inform the applications running against it of the new column count.
Under normal use, the user's shell will update \f3COLUMNS\fP with the
updated value.
.LI \f3DISPLAY\fP
This environment variable specifies the default X11 display to connect
to (see \f3\-display\fP above).
The terminal emulator will set the
subprocess's \f3DISPLAY\fP environment variable to the connected X11
display name.
.LI \f3WINDOWID\fP
The terminal emulator sets the subprocess's \f3WINDOWID\fP
environment variable to the window number of the window in which text
will be rendered.
.LI \f3TERMINAL_EMULATOR\fP
This environment variable is set to \f3dtterm\fP to indicate that
the process is running from a terminal emulator.
.LE
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm dtterm 5,
.Cm stty 1,
.Cm X 1,
.cdes
.Fn XmFontList 3X,
.Fn XmText 3X,
.cdee
.xos
.Fn XmFontList 3X,
in the \*Zt.
.Fn XmText 3X,
in the \*Zt.
.xoe
.cde .Hd Dt/Term.h 5,
.xo .Hd Dt/Term.h ,
.Cm pty 7,
.Cm tty 7.



