.\" Copyright (c) 1997 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH sdtaudio 1  "4 March 1997"
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.IX "sdtaudio" "" "\f3sdtaudio\f1(1) \(em Image viewing application" ""
.SH NAME
sdtaudio \- Audio player for CDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdtaudio
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-w
] [
.B \-h 
] [
.B \-h or \-?
] [
.B audiofile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f3Sdtaudio\f1 is an interactive audio player that can be used to play audio 
files, as well as record audio samples.  The tool supports playback and
recording of Sun audio (AU), PC audio (WAV), and Macintosh audio (AIFF) files,
and allows one to convert from one audio format to another.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 9
.B \-p
Plays the specified audio file on startup.
.TP 9
.B \-r
Starts recording audio on startup.
.TP 9
.B \-w
Starts automatically in wave view.
.TP 9
.B \-h or ?
Prints out valid command line options.
.LP
.SH USAGE
The three menu buttons across the top of the main window are
described below:
.TP 10
.B File        
The File menu contains the following items.
.RS
.TP 10
.B New
Resets the tool to its initial state, closing any open audio file, so that one
can initiate a new recording.  If a recorded sample has not been saved,
one will be prompted whether to save or discard the audio file before
proceeding with the reset.
.TP
.B Open...
Brings up a dialog which allows one to select a file that is to
be opened for playback.  Any open audio file is closed prior to loading
a new file.  If a recorded sample has not been saved, one will be prompted 
to save or discard the audio file before opening the new file.
.TP 
.B Save As...
Brings up a dialog which allows one to specify the file name and the audio 
file type of the file that is to be saved.
.TP 
.B Get Info...
Brings up a dialog that displays information about the current audio file, such
as audio length (in seconds) and sampling rate (in kHz).
.TP
.B Exit
Terminates the application.
.RE
.TP 10
.B Options
The Options menu contains the following items.
.RS
.TP 10
.B Startup...
Brings up the audio options dialog and displays the Startup pane, which allows
one to specify the preferred view on startup.
.TP
.B Play...
Brings up the audio options dialog and displays the Play pane, which allows
one to specify play options (such as volume) when  playing an audio file.
.TP
.B Record...
Brings up the audio options dialog and displays the Record pane, which allows
one to specify record options (such as volume) when recording an audio sample.
.TP
.B Devices...
Brings up the audio options dialog and displays the Devices pane, which allows
one to specify audio input and output devices.  Support of various input
and output devices such as microphones, speakers, and headphones are dependent
on one's hardware configuration.
.RE
.TP 10
.B Help
Standard help menu.
.sp
.PP
The main window consists of various controls that allow one to manipulate
audio files, the user interface, and the audio devices.
.sp
.PP
The first set of buttons allows one to play an audio file, rewind to the
beginning of an audio file, advance to the end of an audio file, and start
recording an audio sample.  A recording indicator light beside the record
button flashes during recording.
.sp
.PP
Below the main buttons is a slider that allows one to set the play point
where audio will start playback.  During playback, this slider dyanmically
moves to give the user location information as the file is played.
.sp
.PP
The mute button beside the recording indicator light temporarily toggles the 
audio output device so that no sound emanates from the output device.  Beside
the mute button are a volume indicator and a set of buttons that allow one
to increase or decrease the volume of the audio output device.
.sp
.PP
The wave button below the mute button toggles the tool's interface from standard
view to wave view.  In wave view, the audio file is represented as a wave form.
While in wave view, one can set the play point by clicking on a particular
location in the wave form.  The play point cursor is set to the specified
location, and, like its slider counter part in the standard view, dynamically
moves to give the user location information as the file is played.
.sp
.PP
The user may drag a file from another application such as 
.BR dtfile (1)
and drop it into the audio window (standard or wave view).
This causes the file to be loaded into \f3sdtaudio\f1.
.SH RESOURCES 
.PP
On startup, 
.B sdtaudio 
will use the following X resources which are 
stored in $HOME/.dt/sessions/Sdtaudio.
Note these resource names will be prepended with sdtaudio.
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
defaultRecordVolume
.TP 
.B Values: 
0 through 100
.TP
.B Description:
Sets the recording volume of the audio input device.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
defaultPlayVolume
.TP 
.B Values: 
0 through 100
.TP
.B Description:
Sets the playback volume of the audio output device.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
autoPlayOnOpen
.TP 
.B Values: 
True, False
.TP
.B Description:
Automatically plays the audio file when opened.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
showWave
.TP 
.B Values: 
False, True
.TP
.B Description:
Automatically starts in wave view.
.sp
.sp .5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
