.\" "@(#)sdtcm_admin.1	1.4 96/06/04 Sun Microsystems, Inc."
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH sdtcm_admin 1 "10 May 1996"
.SH NAME
sdtcm_admin \- calendar administration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdtcm_admin
.B \-a
[
.BI \-c " <calendar@host>"
]
.br
.B sdtcm_admin
.B \-d
[
.BI \-c " <calendar@host>"
] [
.B \-f
]
.br
.B sdtcm_admin
.B \-i
[
.BI \-c " <calendar@host>"
]
.br
.B sdtcm_admin
.B \-l
[
.BI \-h " <hostname>"
]
.br
.B sdtcm_admin
.BI \-p " <symbolic-mode-list>"
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-c " <calendar@host>"
] [
.BI \-n " <name>"
]
.br
.B sdtcm_admin
.B \-x
[
.BI \-c " <calendar@host>"
]
.br
.B sdtcm_admin
.B \-z
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-c " <calendar@host>"
] [
.BI \-n " <name>"
]
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWdtdst
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B sdtcm_admin
utility is used to administer calendars on local or remote systems.  This
utility is useful for creating calendars for both users and non-users (no
uid) on the system.  The
.B \-a
and
.B \-d
options are used to add and delete calendars.  Use the
.B \-i
option to display information about calendars for which you have
permission.  The 
.B \-l
option is used to list calendars on a system.  The
.B \-l
option used in conjunction with
.BI \-h " hostname" 
provides a way to list calendars that exist on remote hosts.  The
.B \-p
option is used to modify a calendar's access list.  To list the calendar's 
access list and rights use the 
.B \-x
option.  Use
.B \-z
to remove a username from an access list.
.LP
Unless otherwise specified by the
.B -c
option, this command acts on the user's calendar.  The name of the user's 
calendar is determined by the login name of the user and the
hostname given by the 
.B "deskset.calendar.Location" 
resource in the $HOME/.desksetdefaults file.  The hostname value can be 
controlled by using 
.B dtcm(1)'s 
option sheet under ``Display Settings''.  If this value is not set
the hostname is determined by using the local host the command is 
executed from.
.LP
It is worth noting that the CDE calendar manager supports two calendar file
formats.  The OpenWindows data format (data version 3) and the CDE data
format (data version 4).  Some of the options listed below are not
supported or work differently on version 3 data.  Options that are not
supported on version 3 data will return an ``unsupported'' error message.
The only option that works differently between the versions is
.B -p
and those differences are explained below.  The sdtcm_convert(1) program
can be used to convert between different data formats.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Add a new calendar.  Without any additional modifiers this option will 
create a calendar for the user.  The
.B "-c"
option can be used in conjunction with the
.B \-a
option to create calendars either locally or remotely.  This option can be
used by root to create a calendar for a user on the system.  When root
creates a calendar for a user the calendar ownership is changed to be
that of the user.  It is worth noting that
.I login1
(where 
.I login1
is not root) cannot create a calendar called
.I login2
if 
.I login2
exists in the passwd file or map.  Only
.I login2
has privileges to create their own calendar.  Additionally
.I login1
cannot create a calendar of any name on a host that cannot look up
.I login1
in the passwd map or file.
.TP
.B \-d
Delete an existing calendar.  Without any additional modifiers this option
will delete the user's calendar.  The
.B \-c
option can be used in conjunction with the
.B "-d"
option to delete calendars either locally or remotely.  The
.B \-f
option is used to turn off the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-i
Print information about a calendar.  Alternate calendars can be specified
by using the
.B \-c
option.
.TP
.B \-l
List calendars on a host.  This option will list the calendars that exist
on a host.  This option is supported on version 5 and greater calendar servers.
The
.B \-h
option can be used to specify the host.
.TP
.B \-p
Modify calendar's access list.  The 
.B \-p
option must be used in conjunction with the 
.B \-n
option.  The
.B \-n
option specifies the username of the person for whom access is being changed.  
The
.B \-p
option takes a comma-separated list (with no intervening whitespace) of 
access modifiers or the keyword
.B noaccess
as a required argument.  An access modifier is made up of 
three components of the form:
.sp 1
.RS 10
.I access
.I operator
.I permissions
.RE
.sp 1
.in 1i
Operations are performed in the order given.  Multiple
.I permissions
letters following a single operator cause the corresponding
operations to be performed simultaneously.
.RS 10
.TP 10
.I access
One of the following sets of characters
.BR pu ,
.BR sp ,
.BR pr ,
.BR at ,
and
.B ar
specifying whose permissions are to be changed or assigned:
.sp 1
.RS 10
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B pu
public entry access
.TP 10
.B sp
semiprivate entry access
.TP 10
.B pr
private entry access
.TP 10
.B at
calendar attribute access
.TP 10
.B ar
access role
.PD
.RE
.TP 10
.I operator
Either
.BR \(pl ,
.BR \(mi ,
or
.BR \(eq ,
signifying how permissions are to be changed:
.LP
.RS 10
.TP 10
.B +
Add permissions.  Add the permissions represented by
.I permissions.
.TP
.B -
Take away permissions.  Clear the permissions represented by
.I permissions.
.TP
.B =
Assign permissions absolutely.  Set the current permissions to be those
represented by
.I permissions.
.RE
.TP 10
.IR permission
Any combination of the following permissions can be used with the
.BR pu ,
.BR sp ,
.BR pr , 
or 
.B at
access types:
.sp 1
.RS 10
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B v
view permission
.TP 10
.B i
insert permission
.TP 10
.B c
change permission
.sp
.in 2.5i
Any combination of the following access roles can be used with the
.B ar
access type:
.sp
.TP 10
.B a
author role
.TP 10
.B o
owner role
.sp
.RE
.in 1i
Public entries represented by 
.B pu
are entries that were entered from dtcm(1) with a privacy 
setting of ``Others See Time and Text''.  Semiprivate entries represented
by
.B sp
are entries
that were entered with a privacy setting of ``Others See Time Only''.  
Individuals
with public view access to the calendar will see all entries with a privacy
setting of ``Others See Time and Text'' and only see the time of
``Others See Time Only'' entries.  Individuals with Semiprivate view access
to the calendar will be able to see ``Others See Time Only'' entries
as if they where ``Others See Time and Text'' entries.  Individuals with
private view access represented by
.B pr
will be able to see ``Others See Nothing''
entires as if they were ``Others See Time and Text'' entires.  Granting
an individual private access does not give public or semiprivate access also.
Each permission is independent of the other.
.sp
Calendar attribute access, controlled by
.BR at,
provides a way for the administrator of the calendar
to control who can view, insert or modify information about the calendar.
Some examples of calendar attributes are the access list, the calendar
size, and ownership information.
The
.B "-l"
or
.B "-x"
options can only be used by users who have view access to the calendar's
attributes.  The 
.B \-p
option can only be used by users that have insert or change permission
for the calendar's attributes.
.sp
Access roles (
.B ar
) provide a user with a set of permissions.
The owner's role grants the individual all the rights that are associated 
with owning the calendar.  This includes the ability to delete the 
calendar from the system.  The user that created the calendar is 
implicitly granted 
.I owner
rights.  The author's role grants the individual the right to delete 
entries the individual created in the calendar.
.sp
To revoke all access to a calendar for a particular user specify
.BR noaccess .  
This will prevent the user from accessing the calendar.
Simply removing the user from the access list may not be sufficient if
there also exists a ``world'' entry in the access list.  The ``world''
entry applies to all users not explicitly listed in the access list.
.sp
.RS
.BI "-p noaccess -n" " username"
.RE
.in 1i
.sp
The following access modifier can be used to grant a user view, insert, 
and change permissions for your public and semiprivate entries along with
author's rights: 
.sp
.RS
.BI "-p pu=vic,sp=vic,ar=a -n" " username"
.RE
.sp
.in 1i
To later remove insert and change access for that same person the following
access modifier can be used:
.sp
.RS
.BI "-p pu-ic,sp-ic -n" " username"
.sp
.RE
.in 1i
If the data version of the calendar is less than 4 (use the
.B -i
option to see the version) then the
.B -p
option takes as an argument any combination of the characters
.BR b ,
.BR i ,
and
.B d
.sp 1
.RS 10
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B b
browse permissions
.TP 10
.B i
insert permissions
.TP 10
.B d
delete permissions
.sp
.RE
.in 1i
The following access modifier can be used to grant a user browse and insert 
permissions for your entries.  [In calendar data versions prior to version 
4 there was no notion of public, semiprivate or private entries].
.RS
.sp
.BI "-p bi -n" " username"
.RE
.in 1i
.sp
The expanded permissions model is only supported on data version 4 and later
calendars.
.sp
.RE
.TP
.B \-x
List calendar's access and rights.  This option lists the calendar's
access list and rights in an abbreviated form.
.sp
.TP
.B \-z
Remove a username from the access list.  This option when used in conjunction
with the
.B -n
.I username
option removes the username from the access list.
.sp
.LP
These additional options can be used as modifiers to the options list above:
.sp
.TP
.BI "-c " "calendar@host"
Names the calendar to be accessed, created or changed.  This option can be
used as a modifier to all the options listed above except for the
.B -l
option.
.sp
.TP
.B \-f
Turns off the confirmation prompt when deleting a calendar.  This option can
only be used as a modifier to the
.B -d
option.
.sp
.TP
.BI "-h " "hostname"
Names the host to list calendars from.  This option can only be used with
the
.B -l
option.
.sp
.TP
.BI "-n " "username"
Names the user to be added, removed or modified in the calendar access
list.  The
.I username
can be in the form of username@host or just username.  This option can
be used with the
.B -p
and
.B -z
options.
.RE
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
To create a new calendar named ``vacation'' on the host ``scoots'' use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -a -c vacation@scoots"
.sp
.LP
To list the calendars that are on the host ``scoots'' use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdstcm_admin -l -h scoots"
.sp
.LP
To retrieve information about your calendar use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -i"
.sp
.LP
To retrieve information about another calendar called ``schedule'' that exists 
on your local system called ``boomer'' use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -i -c schedule@boomer"
.sp
.LP
To grant view permissions to the user ``taj'' to all of your public,
semiprivate, and private entries use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -n taj -p pu=v,sp=v,pr=v"
.sp
.LP
To then grant the user ``taj'' the permission to insert public entries
from the host ``sacto'' use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -n taj@sacto -p pu+i"
.sp
.LP
To grant the user ``nikki'' owner privileges to your calendar use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -p ar+o -n nikki"
.sp
.LP
To remove the user ``taj@sacto'' from the access list on the calendar
``vacation@scoots'' use:
.sp
.IP
.B "example% sdtcm_admin -z -n taj@sacto -c vacation@scoots"
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP 4
.B 0
Application ran without error.
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred.
.sp
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.B $HOME/.desksetdefaults
default calendar location information
.PD
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dtcm (1),
.BR rpc.cmsd (1),
.BR sdtcm_convert (1),
.BR dtcm_delete (1),
.BR dtcm_editor (1),
.BR dtcm_insert (1),
.BR dtcm_lookup (1)
