.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.TH sdtcm_convert 1 "14 March 1995"
.BH "14 March 1995"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.SH NAME
sdtcm_convert \- calendar data conversion utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.fi
.na
sdtcm_convert
[\(miv\0\f2output-version\fP]
[\(mis\0\f2<mm/dd/yy>\fP]
[\(mic\0\f2locale-info\fP]
[\(mid\0\f2backup-directory\fP]
\f2calendar\fP
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sdtcm_convert 
is a calendar data conversion utility which
converts version 3 (OpenWindows calendar data format)
calendar data format to version 4, the extensible
calendar data format, and vice versa.  If the
.B \(mis
option is specified, it also prunes the calendar while doing the
conversion.  The utility can also prune a calendar without
doing data conversion.
.PP
If no option is specified,
.BR sdtcm_convert
will check the calendar file for data integrity.
.PP
.BR sdtcm_convert
must be run by the super-user or the owner of the calendar.
The super-user can run
.BR sdtcm_convert
on any calendar.  A regular user can only run
.BR sdtcm_convert
on his/her own calendar.
The program will look for the specified
calendar in the /var/spool/calendar directory.  When the conversion is
done, the original calendar
file will be saved in the file
"calorig.\f2calendar\fP"
which will be placed
in the specified backup directory or /var/spool/calendar by default.
The new data will be saved in the calendar file
"callog.\f2calendar\fP"
in the /var/spool/calendar directory.
.PP
If the calendar server,
.BR rpc.cmsd (1),
is running,
.BR sdtcm_convert
will send a
.BR SIGHUP
signal to the server and wait until it quits
before doing any data conversion.  This is to ensure the data
integrity of the calendar.
.PP
The version 3 data format is fixed and limited.  In order to
take advantage of the new features supported by the calendar
API, version 3 calendars should be converted to the version 4 data format.
.PP
Note: The OpenWindows calendar server does not support the
version 4 data format.  If you need to switch back to the
OpenWindows calendar server and you have a version 4 calendar,
you should convert your calendar to the version 3 data
format before switching the server.  However, data not
supported in the version 3 data format will be lost during the
conversion.  For example, all calendar attributes except the access list,
entry attributes such as date of creation, date of last update, etc.
will be lost.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI \f3\(miv\0\f2output-version\f1
.br
Specifies the version of the output.  Valid values are
3 (OW calendar data format) and 4 (the extensible data
format).  If this option is not specified, the output
version will be the same as that of the specified
calendar and no data conversion will be done.
The data version of the calendar is displayed in
the About Calendar dialog box of
.BR dtcm(1).
.LI \f3\(mis\0\f2<mm/dd/yy>\f1
.br
Specifies the date to prune the calendar.
Appointments starting before the specified date will be
pruned.  One-time appointments with start date on or
after the specified date will be included in the conversion.
Repeating appointments will be truncated such that the
first appointment in the sequence will happen on or after
the specified date and those sequences that end before the
specified date will be removed.  If this option is not specified,
no appointments will be pruned.
.LI \f3\(mic\0\f2locale-info\f1
.br
Specifies the value to be used in the character set
calendar attribute.  The value should be a valid
Sun-specific locale name (e.g. "C" or "de").  The CDE
platform-independent equivalent of it will be
stored in the calendar.  If this option is not specified,
the CDE platform-independent name of the current locale
associated with the process will be used.
This option is used when converting version 3 data to
version 4 data and will be ignored otherwise.
.LI \f3\(mid\0\f2backup-directory\f1
.br
Specifies the directory in which to place the original
calendar file.  The original file will be
backed up in a file called
"calorig.\f2calendar\fP"
where
.I calendar
is the name of the calendar.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 6
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 6
.LI \f2calendar\fP
.br
The name of the calendar to be converted.  The format is
calendar-name[@host-name].  If the host name is specified,
it must be the name of the local host.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.BR sdtcm_convert :
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogs
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH STDIN
The standard input is used to receive user
replies in case user confirmation is needed.
.SH STDOUT
Used for informative messages to the user.
.SH STDERR
Used for diagnostic and error messages.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/calendar/callog.\f4calendar\fP
The calendar file of the specified calendar.
.PD
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /var/spool/calendar/calorig.\f4calendar\fP
The default backup file of the original calendar file.
.TP 20
.B backup-directory/calorig.\f4calendar\fP
The backup file of the original calendar file if the
.B \(mid
option is specified.
.PD
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI \h"\w'>'u"0
Successful completion.
.LI >0
An error occurred.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
If error occurs, the original calendar file will not be changed.
.SH EXAMPLES
To convert the calendar "user1" to version 4 data format:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
example% sdtcm_convert -v 4 user1
Loading the calendar ...
Doing conversion ...
Writing out new file ...
Conversion done successfully.
Total number of appointments			= 709
Number of one-time appointments converted		= 670
Number of repeating appointments converted		= 39
Number of one-time appointments pruned		= 0
Number of repeating appointments pruned		= 0
The original file is saved in /var/spool/calendar/calorig.user1
example%
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
To convert the calendar "user1" to version 4 data format starting from
1/1/94:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
example% sdtcm_convert -v 4 -s 1/1/94 user1
Loading the calendar ...
Doing conversion ...
Writing out new file ...
Conversion done successfully.
Total number of appointments			= 709
Number of one-time appointments converted		= 233
Number of repeating appointments converted		= 19
Number of one-time appointments pruned		= 437
Number of repeating appointments pruned		= 20
The original file is saved in /var/spool/calendar/calorig.user1
example%
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
To prune the calendar "user1" retaining appointments starting
from 7/1/94 and put the backup of the original calendar file in the
directory /export/backup:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
example% sdtcm_convert -s 7/1/94 -d /export/backup user1
Loading the calendar ...
Doing conversion ...
Writing out new file ...
Conversion done successfully.
Total number of appointments			= 252
Number of one-time appointments converted		= 190
Number of repeating appointments converted		= 19
Number of one-time appointments pruned		= 43
Number of repeating appointments pruned		= 0
The original file is saved in /export/backup/calorig.user1
example%
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
To convert the calendar "user1" from version 4 to version 3 data format:
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
example% sdtcm_convert -v 3 user1
Loading the calendar ...
.sp 0.5v
WARNING!! Data will be lost when converting version 4 data format
back to version 3 data format.
.sp 0.5v
Do you want to continue? (Y/N) [Y] 
.sp 0.5v
Doing conversion ...
Writing out new file ...
Conversion done successfully.
Total number of appointments			= 209
Number of one-time appointments converted		= 190
Number of repeating appointments converted		= 19
Number of one-time appointments pruned		= 0
Number of repeating appointments pruned		= 0
The original file is saved in /var/spool/calendar/calorig.user1
example%
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
To do sanity check on calendar "user1":
.PP
.sp -1
.RS 5
.ta 4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m +4m
.nf
.ft 3
example% sdtcm_convert user1
Loading the calendar ...
The calendar file is ok.
Total number of appointments		= 209
Number of one-time appointments		= 190
Number of repeating appointments		= 19
example%
.PP
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR rpc.cmsd (1),
.BR dtcm (1).
