.de LI
.\" simulate -mm .LIs by turning them into .TPs
.TP \\n()Jn
\\$1
..
.TH sdtgilcvt 1 "11 April 1995"
.BH "11 April 1995"
.\" CDE Common Source Format, Version 1.0.0
.\" *************************************************************************
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" *************************************************************************
.SH NAME
sdtgilcvt \- convert Devguide GIL files to BIL format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 3
.fi
.na
sdtgilcvt
[ \|options\| ] [ \|files...\| ]
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR sdtgilcvt 
utility converts Devguide GIL files to BIL files that
can be read and manipulated by the CDE Application Builder. GIL files
are supported primarily by Devguide, which
is an OpenWindows/OPEN LOOK graphical user interface development tool.
Sdtgilcvt can convert files written by any version of Devguide, up to
version 3.0.1, which is the most recent version shipped. The GIL versions
supported are GIL-1 to GIL-4.

The output format is BIL 1.0 (Builder Interface Language 1.0). This
is the format supported by dtbuilder (the CDE Application Builder).
A one-to-one mapping of GIL to BIL files is performed, converting GIL project
to BIL project files, and GIL interface files to BIL module files.
The BIL files are written as new files, with either .bip or .bil
extensions, and the original GIL files are left unmodified.

The sdtgilcvt utility accepts multiple files on the command line, and
each file supplied on the command line is converted from GIL to BIL format.
However, only one (or no) GIL project file may be specified. If the sole
argument is a GIL project file, the project and all interfaces referenced
by the project are converted. If a project file and interface files are
specified on the command line, 
all GIL interface files specified must belong
to that project, and each of the interfaces will be converted. 
If neither -project nor -noproject is specified, the converter attempts to
work in project mode by searching for an appropriate project file in the
current directory.

If the desired behavior is to convert interface
files independently of each other (i.e., with no project), the -noproject
flag may be specifed. If -noproject is specified, each interface file
specifed will be converted without looking at a project file. Conversely,
if -project is specified a project file must be supplied.

.\" See the \f2CDE Help System Author's and Programmer's
.\" Guide\f1 for a description of the HelpTag markup language.
.\" See
.\" .BR dthelpview (1)
.\" for more information on
.\" previewing compiled Help volumes.
.\" .PP
.\" The
.\" .BR sdtgilcvt 
.\" utility accepts a single file name as an argument.
.\" If the file name
.\" contains a period (``\.''), any characters after the last period are
.\" considered to be the extension.
.\" The
.\" .BR sdtgilcvt 
.\" utility removes all characters after the last period and uses the
.\" resulting name as the base name for all intermediate files and for the
.\" final output files.
.\" .PP
.\" If the \f2file\f1
.\" argument has no periods,
.\" .BR sdtgilcvt 
.\" uses the argument as the base name for intermediate and output files
.\"Several options to 
.\".BR sdtgilcvt 
.\"may precede the file name.
.\"Several arguments directing the
.\"parsing phase of the
.\".BR sdtgilcvt 
.\"process may follow the file name.
.\".PP
.\"The output file is:
.\".br
.\"\f2file\f1.sdl \(mi the compiled help volume file.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI \f3\(mihelp\f1
The \f3\(mihelp\f1 option causes
.BR sdtgilcvt 
to emit a synopsis of the
.BR sdtgilcvt 
command line and a list of options to the standard output.
.LI \f3\(minoproject\f1
The \f3\(minoproject\f1
option causes the default project settings to be used. No project file
may be specified.
.LI \f3\(miproject\ <project-file>\f1
The \f3\(miproject\f1
option converts GIL files in the context of a GIL project file, which
must be supplied on the command line.
.LI \f3\(misilent\f1
The \f3\(misilent\f1
option eliminates all progress messages. Only error messages are emitted,
which are sent to stderr.
.LI \f3\(miverbose\f1
The \f3\(miverbose\f1
option will cause
.BR sdtgilcvt 
to report detailed progress messages during the conversion process.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Sdtgilcvt does not recognize any specialized environment variables.
.SH INPUT FILES
Following are the input files used by the
.BR sdtgilcvt 
utility:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI \f3file.P\f1
GIL project file.
.LI \f3file.G\f1
GIL interface file.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH OUTPUT FILES
Following are the output files generated by the
.BR sdtgilcvt
utility:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI \f3file.bip\f1
BIL project file.
.LI \f3file.bil\f1
BIL module file
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
The
.BR sdtgilcvt 
utility is a translator that converts Devguide 3.0.1 and earlier
GIL (.P and .G) files to BIL (.bip and .bil) files. The BIL files can
be read and manipulated by the CDE Application Builder.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 4
.LI 0
Successful completion. All files were converted.
.LI Nonzero
One or more files were not converted successfully.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
When an error occurs, sdtgilcvt sends a message to stderr and 
exits with a nonzero code. The source (GIL) files will be unmodified,
and the output BIL file will not exist. If a BIL file existed prior
to running sdtgilcvt, it will be given a .BAK extension, to show that 
it may be out of date.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS 3
.nr )J 15
.LI "\f3sdtgilcvt myproject.P\f1"
Convert all the files (project and interface) in the project file
``myproject.P'' to BIL format.
.LI "\f3sdtgilcvt myproject.P module1 module2\f1"
Convert the modules module1 and module2 in the project ``\f3myproject.P\f1''.
.LI "\f3sdtgilcvt -noproject module1.G\f1
Convert the file ``\f3module1.G\f1'', ignoring any project that it may belong
to.
.PP
.RE
.nr )J 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.BR dtbuilderaction(5),
\f2CDE Application Builder User's Guide\f1.
