.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH sdtimage 1  "25 March 1994"
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.IX "sdtimage" "" "\f3sdtimage\f1(1) \(em Image viewing application" ""
.IX "images" "OpenWindows" "images" "OpenWindows viewing program \(em \f3sdtimage\f1(1)"
.SH NAME
sdtimage \- Image viewer for CDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdtimage
[
.B \-usage
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-verbose
] [
.BI \-timeout " seconds" 
] [
.I imagefile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f3Sdtimage\f1 is an interactive image viewer that
can be used to view the contents of a variety of file types such as
GIF, TIFF, JFIF (JPEG) and \*(Ps.
The user may perform various operations on the image such as rotation,
zooming and flipping to view the image differently.
If the file loaded in is a multi-page document (such as a \*(Ps document),
the user may page through the entire document, or skip to any page directly.
.LP
.SH USAGE
The four menu buttons across the top of the main window are
described below:
.TP 10
.B File        
The File menu contains the following items.
.RS
.TP 10
.B Open...
Brings up a dialog which allows the user to select a file that is to
be opened for viewing.
.TP 
.B Open As...
Brings up a dialog which allows the user to select a file that is to
be opened for viewing, and also allows the user to specify the file type.
.TP
.B Save...
If the file has no name, this brings up a dialog for the user to specify
the file name, and save the file.
If the file is named, then this simply saves the currently viewed image
to the file. 
.TP 
.B Save As...
Brings up a dialog which allows the user to specify the file name, the file
type, number of colors and compression type of the file that is to be saved.
.TP 
.B Save Selection As...
Brings up a dialog which allows the user to specify the file name, the file type,
number of colors and compression type of the file that is to be saved.
This menu item is only active if the user has selected a region of interest
in the currently displayed image.
.TP 
.B Save Page As Image...
Brings up a dialog which allows the user to specify the file name, the file type,
number of colors and compression type of the file that is to be saved.
This menu item is only active if the user if viewing a page of a multi-page file.
.TP 
.B Print One
Allows user to print one copy of the currently displayed image using the 
current values (which may be the default values) on the Print dialog.
.TP 
.B Print Preview...
Brings up a window and displays the image as it would look if it were printed,
based on the settings (which may be the default values) on the Print dialog.
.TP 
.B Print...
Brings up a dialog which allows user to set various parameters that affect the
printing of the currently displayed image such as position, and size.
.TP
.B Options...
Brings up a dialog that allows the user to specify options that affect how
.B sdtimage
is run.
These include whether to display images in gray scale or color, number of colors
to display (this option depends on the framebuffer of the users system),
whether to display \*(Ps in color or monochrome, and
whether or not the palette is to display immediately or not.
.TP
.B Exit
Terminates the application.
.RE
.TP 10
.B Edit
The Edit menu contains the following items.
.RS
.TP 10
.B Undo
If the user has selected one of the various operations on the palette, he may
undo his last selection by choosing this menu item.
.TP
.B Palette...
Brings up a palette with various operations that may be performed on the currently
displayed image, such as rotation, zooming and flipping.
.RE
.TP 10
.B View
The View menu contains the following items.
.RS
.TP 10
.B Image Info...
Brings up a window that displays various information about the currently viewed
image, such as width and height.
.TP 
.B Page Overview...
Brings up a dialog which displays at most 16 pages of the currently viewed document.
The user may select a page for viewing from this display.
This option is valid only if the user is viewing a multi-page document.
.TP 
.B Page Viewing Controls
Brings up a dialog from which the user may set various parameters that affect
the viewing of multi-page (such as \*(Ps) files.
This option is valid only if the user is viewing a multi-page document.
.RE
.TP 10
.B Help
Standard help menu.
.sp
.PP
The toolbar contains controls that provide easier navigation 
through a 
multi-page document.
The scale in the toolbar is used to go to a specific page
where the two arrow buttons in the toolbar are the forward and 
backward buttons for paging.  Both the scale and the arrow buttons 
become active when a multi-page document is loaded.
.sp
The user may drag files from another application such as 
.BR dtfile (1)
and drop them into the base window.
This causes them to be loaded into \f3sdtimage\f1 and displayed.
.sp
Below the toolbar, there is a display area on which the image is displayed.
When \f3sdtimage\f1
starts up, it tries to create the window to fit the size of the image.
However, if the image is very large, it may only show a portion of it.
The user may however, use the scrollbars attached to the display area
to move around within the image.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 9
.B \-v
Prints out the current version of
.B sdtimage.
.TP 9
.B \-verbose
Prints lots of debugging information (not useful to the user)
.TP 9
.BI \-timeout " seconds"
Set the timeout value for the 
Display \*(Ps server.  The default value is 60 seconds.
.TP 9
.B \-usage
Prints out valid command line options.
.PP
If \f3imagefile\f1 is specified, image is displayed automatically 
when
the window appears.
If no argument is given,
.B sdtimage
comes up with no document or image in it. 
.SH RESOURCES 
.PP
On startup, 
.B sdtimage 
will use the following X resources which are 
stored in $HOME/.desksetdefaults.
Note these resource names will be prepended with deskset.imagetool.
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
ViewImageIn
.TP 
.B Values: 
Color, GrayScale (Color)
.TP
.B Description:
Determines if images will be displayed in color or grayscale. If user
is using a monochrome monitor, this setting has no effect.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
Colors
.TP
.B Values:
BW, 16, 256, Millions (256)
.TP
.B Description:
Sets the number of colors to be used when viewing images. This resource
only is used if a multi-plane framebuffer is being used. Note that for
most color monitors, only 256 colors are possible.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
ViewPostScriptIn
.TP
.B Values:
Color, Monochrome (Monochrome)
.TP
.B Description:
Determines if a \*(Ps file will be displayed in Color or Monochrome. 
Setting this resource to Monochrome will reduce the number of colors 
allocated in the colormap and  will reduce the chances of color flashing.  
If user is using a monochrome monitor, this setting has no effect.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
DisplayPalette
.TP
.B Values:
True, False (True)
.TP
.B Description:
Determines if palette is automatically displayed when first image is
opened by 
.B sdtimage.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
TTTimeoutSecs
.TP
.B Values:
Integer Value (300)
.TP
.B Description:
Number of seconds which will leave 
.B sdtimage 
running as a background process
even after the user exits the program.  This timeout value applies 
only when 
.B sdtimage 
is started by ttsession.
.sp
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
UseDSC
.TP 
.B Values:
True, False (False)
.TP
.B Description:
Determines how \*(Ps documents are interpreted.
A well written \*(Ps file contains Document Structuring
Comments which separate various sections of the document.
If the comments are used correctly, then it is easy to
determine where each page of the document begins and ends.
By default, 
.B sdtimage
does not look for these comments when determining pages.
Because of this, backward paging can be slow
since the only way to verify that the displayed page will
look correct is to begin at the beginning of the document
and render pages until the desired page is found.
If the user finds that the performance is not acceptable,
then this resource may be set, at which time,
.B sdtimage
will use the Document Structuring Comments to determine where
each page begins and ends.
Note that this may help performance, but that displayed
pages may not look correct due to no comments being found
in the document, or the comments being used incorrectly.
.sp
.sp .5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dps (7)
.br
.TZ SSUG
.sp
.SH TRADEMARK
\*(Ps is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.
