.\"--- 
.\"    (c) Copyright 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"--- 
.TH sdtvolcheck 1 "4 Jun 1996"
.BH "4 Jun 1996"
.\"---
.SH NAME
sdtvolcheck \- check for media and open media found
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdtvolcheck 
.RB [ \-z
.IR nsecs ]
.RB [ \-fdD ]
.RI [ media_spec
.RI [ cmd
.RI [ arg... ]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Check for removable media and (by default) open the media found.
.B sdtvolcheck
watches continuously for media insertions while the user is
logged into CDE, and is also run when the user explicitly
asks to open a removable volume.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Monitor the specified media continuously.
.TP
.BI \-z \ nsecs
Sleep
.I nsecs
seconds before doing anything.  Useful for preventing race conditions
at startup.
.TP
.B \-D
Pass device path (e.g. /vol/dev/rdiskette0/volname) as well as
mount point (e.g. /floppy/volname) to
.I cmd.
By default, only the device path is passed.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not format unreadable floppies found.  By default, floppies that
are unlabeled or unformatted are first formatted before
.I cmd
is run.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
.I media_spec
The media for which to check, e.g. floppy0, cdrom, *.  Default: floppy.
.B sdtvolcheck
opens all volumes described by /tmp/.removable/media_spec*.
.TP
.I cmd arg...
The command to run on any media found.  The command is passed
the mount point and optionally the device path.  The default
command is dtaction Open.  Except when the
.I -d
option is given,
.B sdtvolcheck
waits synchronously for each invoked command to exit.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 15
0
Successful completion
.TP
1
Invalid command line options.
.TP
2
/tmp/.removable does not exist and could not be created.
.TP
3
Notification pipe /tmp/.removable/notifyNNN could not be created.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /tmp/.removable/notifyNNN 		volmgt notification pipe
.TP 20
.B /tmp/.removable/media_spec* 		volmgt media descriptions
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR volcheck (1),
.BR format_floppy (1),
.BR dtaction (1)
