.\" @(#)sdtwebclient.1	1.3 97/05/20 SMI
.\" (c) Copyright 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"--- 
.TH sdtwebclient 1 "20 Jun 1996"
.BH "20 Jun 1996"
.\"---
.SH NAME
sdtwebclient \- web browser client
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWdtdst
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdtwebclient 
.RB [ \-b
.IR browser ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR browser-options ]
.RI [ url-string ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Start a web browser client if available.
.B sdtwebclient
searches $PATH for an available web browser.
The set of browsers searched for are:
.I
netscape,
.I
sdthotjava,
and
.I
hotjava
in that order.
Other browsers can be specified with the \-b option.
.LP
.B sdtwebclient
is useful for scripts which want to use a web browser
without hard coding a specific browser or which want
a normalized exit status.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b \ browser
Start
.I browser
command instead of searching for an available browser.
Useful for specifying a particular browser.
.TP
.BI \-o \ browser-options
Pass
.I browser-options
to
.I
browser
specified by \-b option.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
.I url-string
The URL (Uniform Resource Location) to pass to the web browser.
If not specified the web browser usually uses a default
home page URL instead.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To start a web browser on its default home page use:
.IP
.B "example% sdtwebclient"
.LP
To start
.I
netscape
on its default home page use:
.IP
.B "example% sdtwebclient -b netscape"
.LP
To start a web browser on a particular home page use:
.IP
.B "example% sdtwebclient http://www.sun.com"
.SH "NETSCAPE SUPPORT"
When
.I netscape
is used,
.B sdtwebclient
uses the
.I \-remote
command line option with the
.I openURL
argument to attempt to tell a running
.I netscape
to open a new web browser window.
If no
.I netscape
is already running then one will be started.
.LP
The
.I Remote Control of Netscape
is described further at
.I http://home.netscape.com/newsref/std/x-remote.html
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid command line options.
.TP
.B 2
Browser not found in $PATH.
.PD
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtaction (1)
.BR sdtwebaction (5)
