.TH ttsession 1 "11 May 1994"
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Novell, Inc.
.SH NAME
ttsession \- the ToolTalk message server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.yS
ttsession
[\-hNpsStv]
[\-E|\-X]
[\-a\ \f2level\fP]
[\-d\ \f2display\fP]
[\-c\ [\f2command\fP]]
.yE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.Cm ttsession
utility
is the ToolTalk message server.
This background process must be running
before any messages can be sent or received.
Each message server defines a
.IR session .
.P
The message server has no user interface and typically runs in the
background, started either by the user's
.B \&.xinitrc
file or automatically
by any program that needs to send or receive a message.
.SH OPTIONS
.xos
The
.Cm ttsession
utility supports the \*(Zu, except that the
.B \-c
option has an optional option-argument,
which treats all of the following command-line arguments
as a string to be passed to another shell invocation.
.xoe
The following options are available:
.VL 6
.LI \f3\-a\0\f2level\f1
.br
Set the server authentication level.
The following
.I level
string values are supported:
.VL 8
.LI \f3unix\fP
The sender and receiver must have the same user ID.
.LI \f3des\fP
The underlying RPC calls use
.Cn AUTH_DES .
.LE
.LI \f3\-c\0[\f2command\f3]\f1
.br
Start a process tree session and run the given command.
The
.Cm ttsession
utility sets the environment variable
.I TT_SESSION
to the name of this session.
Any process started with this variable in the environment
defaults to being in this session.
If
.I command
is omitted,
.Cm ttsession
invokes the shell named by the
.I SHELL
environment variable.
Everything after
.B \-c
on the command line is used as the command to be executed.
.LI \f3\-d\0\f2display\f1
.br
Specify an X Windows display.
The ToolTalk session will consist of those applications
displaying on the named display.
The default display is identified by the
.I DISPLAY
environment variable.
.LI \f3\-E\fP
Read in the types from the Classing Engine database.
If neither
.B \-E
nor
.B \-X
is given,
.B \-X
is assumed.
.LI \f3\-h\fP
Write a help message to standard error that
describes the command syntax of
.Cm ttsession ,
and exit.
.LI \f3\-N\fP
Maximize the number of clients allowed to connect to (in other words, open
procids in) this session by attempting to raise the limit of
open file descriptors.
The precise number of clients is system-dependent;
on some systems this option may have no effect.
.LI \f3\-p\fP
Write the name of a new process tree session to standard output, and then
fork a background instance of
.Cm ttsession
to manage this new session.
.LI \f3\-s\fP
Silent.
Do not write any warning messages to standard error.
.LI \f3\-S\fP
Do not fork a background instance to manage the
.Cm ttsession
session.
.LI \f3\-t\fP
Turn on trace mode.
See
.B "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
for how to turn tracing on and off during execution.
Tracing displays the state of a message when it is first seen by
.Cm ttsession .
The lifetime of the message is then shown by showing the result of
matching the message against type signatures (dispatch stage) and then
showing the result of matching the message against any registered
message patterns (delivery stage).
Any attempt to send the message to
a given process is also shown together with the success of that attempt.
.LI \f3\-v\fP
Write the version number to standard output and exit.
.LI \f3\-X\fP
Read in the types from the following XDR format databases:
.Cs I
$HOME/.tt/types.xdr
.xo <\f2implementation-specific system and network databases\fP>
.cde /etc/tt/types.xdr
.cde $OPENWINHOME/etc/tt/types.xdr
/usr/dt/appconfig/tttypes/types.xdr
.Ce
.P
The databases are listed order of decreasing precedence.
Entries in
.B $HOME/.tt/types.xdr
override any like entries in the databases
lower in the list, and so forth.
.P
These locations can be overridden by setting the
.I TTPATH
environment variable.
See
.BR "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES" .
.LE
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The XDR format databases listed by the
.B \-X
option are serialized ToolTalk data structures of
an unspecified format, except that it is the same
as the format of
.Cm tt_type_comp 1
output files.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Cm ttsession :
.VL 15
.cdes
.LI \f2CEPATH\fP
In Classing Engine mode, this variable tells the Classing Engine
where to find the databases that contain ToolTalk types.
See
.Cm ce_db_build 1.
.cdee
.LI \f2DISPLAY\fP
If
.I TT_SESSION
is not set and
.I DISPLAY
is set, then the value of
.I DISPLAY
will be used by all ToolTalk clients to identify the
.Cm ttsession
process serving their X display.
If no such process is running, the ToolTalk
service will auto-start one.
.P
If
.Cm ttsession
is run with the
.B \-d
option and
.I DISPLAY
is not set,
.Cm ttsession
sets
.I DISPLAY
to be the value of the
.B \-d
option for itself and all processes it forks.
This helps ToolTalk clients to find the right X display when
they are auto-started by
.Cm ttsession .
.LI \f2LANG\fP
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
that are unset or null.
If
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the
implementation-specific default locale will be used.
If any of the internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the
utility behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI \f2LC_ALL\fP
If set to a non-empty string value,
override the values of all the other internationalization variables.
.LI \f2LC_MESSAGES\fP
Determine the locale that is used to affect
the format and contents of diagnostic
messages written to standard error
and informative messages written to standard output.
.LI \f2NLSPATH\fP
Determine the location of message catalogues
for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.LI \f2TT_ARG_TRACE_WIDTH\fP
.br
Specify the number of bytes of argument and context values to write when
in trace mode.
The default is to print the first 40 bytes.
.LI \f2TTPATH\fP
.cde In XDR mode, a
.xo A
colon-separated list of directories that tells ToolTalk
where to find the ToolTalk types databases.
The format of this variable is:
.Cs I
\f2userDir\f1[:\f2systemDir\f1[:\f2networkDir\f1]]
.Ce
.LI \f2TTSESSION_CMD\fP
.br
Specify the shell command to be used by all ToolTalk clients 
for auto-starting
.Cm ttsession .
.LE
.P
The
.Cm ttsession
utility creates the following variable when it invokes another process:
.VL 15
.LI \f2TT_FILE\fP
When
.Cm ttsession
invokes a tool to receive a message, it copies the file attribute
(if any) of the message into this variable, formatted in the same
manner as returned by the
.Fn tt_message_file 3
function.
.LI \f2TT_SESSION\fP
The
.Cm ttsession
utility uses this variable to communicate its session ID to the tools that
it starts.
The format of the variable is implementation specific.
If this variable is set, the ToolTalk client library uses its
value as the default session ID.
.LI \f2TT_TOKEN\fP
Inform the ToolTalk client library that it has been invoked by
.Cm ttsession ,
so that the client can confirm to
.Cm ttsession
that it started successfully.
The format of the variable is implementation specific.
.LE
.P
A tool started by
.Cm ttsession
must ensure that the
.I TT_SESSION
and
.I TT_TOKEN
are present in the environment of any processes it invokes.
.SH "RESOURCES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
The
.Cm ttsession
utility reacts to two signals.
If it receives the
.Cn SIGUSR1
signal, it toggles trace mode on or off (see the
.B \-t
option).
If it receives the
.Cn SIGUSR2
signal, it rereads the types file.
The
.Cm ttsession
utility takes the standard action for all other signals.
.SH STDOUT
When the
.B \-v
option is used,
.Cm ttsession
writes the version number in an unspecified format.
When
.B \-p
is used,
.Cm ttsession
writes the name of a new process tree session.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages and the help message written by the
.B \-h
option.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
When the
.B \-c
child process exits,
.Cm ttsession
exits with the status of the exited child.
Otherwise, the following exit values are returned:
.VL 4
.LI 0
Normal termination.
Without the
.B \-c
or
.B \-S
options, a zero exit status means
.Cm ttsession
has successfully forked an instance of itself that has begun
serving the session.
.LI 1
Abnormal termination.
The
.Cm ttsession
utility was given invalid command line options, was interrupted by
.Cn SIGINT ,
or encountered some internal error.
.LI 2
Collision.
Another
.Cm ttsession
was found to be serving the session already.
.LE
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Since everything after
.B \-c
on the command line is used as the command to be executed,
.B \-c
should be the last option.
.P
Tracing is helpful for seeing how messages are
dispatched and delivered, but the output may be voluminous.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Cm tt_type_comp 1,
.Fn tt_message_file 3.
.iN
.mc 2
The version of
.Cm ttsession
presented in Draft 1 was for discussion of specification
format only.
The technical changes made in this version have not been diff-marked.
.sA
.mc
