...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 International Business Machines Corp.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994 Unix System Labs, Inc.,
...\" **      a subsidiary of Novell, Inc.
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
...\" **
...\" **
.TH xmbind 1X "" "" "" ""
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company
.ds ]W Motif Release 1.2: May 1992
.SH NAME
\fIxmbind\fP \- Configures virtual key bindings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.sS
\fIxmbind\fP  [\fBoptions\fP] [\fBfile\fP]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
\fIxmbind\fP is an X Window System client that configures the virtual
key bindings for Motif applications.  This action is performed by \fImwm\fP
at its startup, so the \fIxmbind\fP client is only needed when \fImwm\fP
is not in use, or when you want to change bindings without restarting
\fImwm\fP.  If a file is specified,
it's contents are used as the virtual key bindings.  If a file is not
specified, the file \fI\&.motifbind\fP in the user's home directory
is used.  If this file is not found, \fIxmbind\fP loads the default
virtual key bindings, as described in \fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP.
.SS Options
.IP "\fI\-display\fP"
This option specifies the display to use; see X(1).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fIVirtualBindings(3X)\fP and
\fIX(1X)\fP.
.ad
